Modupe-Ndidiamaka Ogunbanjo is the CEO, Multi Contractor Limited and Founder of Pop In Supermunchies and currently the Managing Director of BWC Real Estates. She doesn’t believe that the womenfolk should be restricted by any circumstances. In this interview with NKASIOBI OLUIKPE, she speaks on how best to survive the now mutating pandemic. Excerpts: There’s been so much talk about Nwanyi Nsukka Original, what is all about? Nwanyi Nsukka Original is a one-stop-online shop that sells soup ingredients like egusi, ogbono, ogiri Nsukka, palm oil as well as pure honey too. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! What informed your setting up Nwanyi Nsukka Original? I have been desiring to have something I can do from the comforts of my home. I’m Passionate About Globalisation Of Nigerian Skincare Products –Akinbajo ‘2020 Has Been A Very Difficult Year For Businesses’ There is something I was doing previously, but I desired the one I would be doing from the comforts of my home. And I have been praying and asking God for guidance. I mean not just anything now, but something I will be doing and be happy doing it and it will be worth the efforts. I have been praying fervently for it. Somehow, I found myself joining an online fellowship. After the fellowship one of the days preceding the lockdown, the officiating Minister told a story of an online bitter leaf dealer who was really making it big time. She encouraged us to just do something, anything we can think about. That we shouldn’t look down on anything. She also reminded us that online business was the in-thing. She told us to think and give it a trial. After her sermon, it just struck me that I could start this soup ingredients business. I then called my daughter and told her I have found what I wanted to do and I explained it all to her. Actually, I am not from Nsukka, I am an Anambra woman but by association, I am now from Nsukka because my first daughter is married to an Nsukka man. We, from the East know that people from Enugu, Nsukka to be precise, are very good at original food produce. Even before I thought of going into this kind of business and before becoming their in-law, I don’t use palm oil from anywhere other than Nsukka. So when I made up my mind, I called one of my in-laws and told her what I wanted to do and that I don’t know if it’s going to be a problem doing it. She assured me it wasn’t going to be a problem as she will be ready to assist in the purchases. The next step was the packaging, I started planning for that. We were in the process when the lockdown set in. Within that period I got the printer and finished the packaging process including the brand name. It was even my daughter who suggested the Nwanyi Nsukka Original brand name. You know when people with a quality brand mindset hear that name Nsukka, the first thing that crosses their mind is originality. Some of them tell me, but you are not from Nsukka nau. I tell them, everything I sell come from Nsukka, so I must give them that credit. Immediately interstate lockdown was lifted, we began supplies. Besides, we provide our clients with the luxury of being within the comforts of their homes and still getting their original soup ingredients. If it’s a client that lives close to us, we deliver without charges. Sometimes, our clients come straight to pick the products themselves. In other words, people who don’t want to order online come directly to buy? Of course, even in my church and my daughter’s office, especially on Saturdays, we get calls from clients to bring some products for them to the church. So, our operation is 24/7 busy. Even though you are still new, looking back, would you say you’ve really achieved the purpose for which you started it? Yes, because if I should look back I still remember how much I have invested. Today, I can tell you for sure that I have raised my capital. And we are still growing. But how do you monitor and guarantee the originality of your stuffs, especially in the face of adulteration for products like the palm oil? That is why I don’t source from any place other than Nsukka. I also buy only from one supplier. Ever since I started I have not gotten any complaints from my clients. Rather, you hear my customers saying the egusi is original hand-peeled, the palm oil is native and that the ogbono draws very well. I keep getting compliments. Originality compliments keeps my business going. When you factor in the delivery processes to the price of the ingredients, as against what is obtainable in the general market, do you think it is really worth it? The difference when you compare it is nothing to worry about. It all depends on the quantity being bought. Besides, should you go to the market, remember, you will also have to pay for transportation. The difference is just between N200 to N500. With the pandemic still around the corner, we help to decongest the market. Like I always tell people, Nwanyi Nsukka Original is for people that have value for quality and those who care about what they put into their systems. For how long now have you been into this kind of business? We are just five months old. Before then we sell Spanish wines. How prominent are you in the social media, and how has it helped your business? Wow, social media is my shop because I don’t have any shop anywhere. We are on Instagram, facebook, whatsApp, twitter, etc. The social media is the number one booster of my business. How do you compare private entrepreneurship to paid employment; Is there a difference? There are, but it all depends on the goals of individuals. I have tasted both sides. There are people who are sworn salary earners, it pays them, I have nothing against it. There are also others who irrespective of what you tell them, they will not seek paid employment. It’s all about individual choices. When it was time to be self-employed, I left paid employment, and I must say, I don’t regret it because it gave me all the time to take care of my children. And today, I am assisting in raising my grandchildren. So, how would you describe the business environment Nigeria? Business environment in Nigeria is so tough, but we have a very huge market for anybody that is serious and determined to do something. However, it is not easy. Again, nothing comes easy. So, what are the challenges private business operators like you face in the country? It all depends on the kind of business you are doing as well as the size of your business. Some peoples businesses depend 100 per cent on power supply. These set of people are not finding it funny in the country. I considered all those things when I was making my choice of business because I don’t want anything that will make NEPA to put me under high tension and forcing me to run the gen-set for 24 hours. Our products which are natural only need the right ventilation, nothing more. I only use light when I want to do the sealing, which can be done within a space of five minutes with the generator. However, the cost of transportation is a problem as it keeps increasing by the day. Assuming we have a rail line, it would have been far cheaper. So, how do you think government can help? There are a lot of ways they can help. Those that depend on power are being badly affected. They should provide power. The unemployment rate in the country will reduce drastically if they do that because Nigerians are hustlers and ready to survive at all cost. You can’t be looking for capital to start your business and at the same time looking for money to buy and be servicing a generator. If government should address this issue of light, it will go a long way. Also, we need a good road network. There is no rail line operating from the East to Lagos. If these basic infrastructures are taken care of by government, every other thing will follow suit because everybody wants to do something. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION