LAGOS – The insecurity situation in the country is becoming frightening and some Nigerians believe that the unitary system of government currently run by the country has failed, and are calling for restructuring, which they believe would take care of insecurity through multi-level policing. The understanding of stakeholders in the Nigerian project was that concentration of power at the centre would further diminish the potentials of the country, and growing into a strong nation, would necessitate devolution of powers to federating units. Eminent Nigerians, including former governor of Anambra State, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, Yinka Odumakin, chieftain of Afenifere, Soji Awogbade, publicity committee member of Voice of Reason Organization, and a host of others, had in a programme in University of Lagos, titled, “Conference on Restructuring The Nigeria State” organized by the Institute of African and Diaspora Studies (IADS), called on the leaders to listen to the voice of reason, by restructure the country to avoid the nation, sliding more, into poverty. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ezeife in his presentation stated that Nigeria would not achieve God’s purpose for her, unless she develops into a super power among the nations of the world, maintaining that she needed her present large size to achieve that, pointing out that the country developing into a super power among world nations would raise her respect, dignity and prestige of all the blacks of the world. The former governor stressed that some people who interpreted restructuring as beginning and ending with resource control associate it with the drying up of oil revenue for non-oil producing States. He maintained that it was myopic in the extreme, pointing out that national policies should be made such that the interest of all would be accommodated. “Recently the National Assembly dealt with the issue of devolution of powers, which is a key element in the restructuring of Nigeria. Devolution of powers deals with the sharing of powers between the centre or federal government and the federating units. When powers (the power over electricity, the power over external relations, the power over weights, measures and currencies, the power over primary and secondary schools, the power over the exploitation of minerals, the power over all internal security or police affairs, markets, courts, religion, the power over revenue, etcetera) are concentrated in the central government, it defines extreme unitary government’ he said. Ezeife said that to avoid the fear that some States would not be able to cope, stated that every element of restructuring would be negotiated. He maintained that at worst, no State should lose revenue during the first five years post restructuring. He said, “In that period, or longer governments which benefitted from oil revenue must be assisted to develop alternative sources of revenue” Odumakin said that Nigeria had entered into a terminal crisis and would not be able to resolve any of them, unless it restructured. He stressed that restructuring simply put was to go back to federalism, pointing out that any attempt to continue to run the nation along unitary line would produce the kind of challenges facing the country today. He said that on the first three years of President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigeria had borrowed more money than it had done in 30 years, stating that Nigeria had borrowed into bankruptcy. Odumakin maintained that the nation had turned itself into a sharing rather than a producing nation, and would never make any progress unless it restructures, stressing that Nigeria was no longer a developing country but under developed country. He said that the only way forward for peace and prosperity remained restructuring. While speaking on the importance of multi-level policing, Odumakin stressed, there would not have been any controversy about Amotekun if the country had been restructured. “The issue of Amotekun, a security measure set up by South-West governors to secure those living in the region, Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, everybody, because Nigeria has failed to provide security has generated a lot of controversy. We live with fears every day. “All kinds of crime have been going on. When people are attacked and when they mention herdsmen, government would no longer be interested, whereas if we are running a multi-level policing, federal policing, State and other levels, there would be control” he said. He maintained that a group like Amotekun would go into the forest and because they know where the criminals would be, they would effectively provide security. He said that because the leaders have failed to restructure, they want to be controlling everything from Abuja, which according to him was why there was so much challenges, including the security issues that had been on the rise in recent time. Awogbade said it was only ignorance and fraud that would make anyone oppose restructuring, maintaining that less that 200,000 Nigerians were the ones opposing to the idea that would benefit over 180 million people. He said that the concept of restructuring had to be negotiated, pointing out that restructuring meant collection of ideas that would be negotiated such that what was accepted would be re-examined. He said that when Nigeria operated federal system in the 60’s, it prospered, and the regions fared very well, stressing that governance in the unitary system had broken down, and the people must go back to what worked for them. Dr. Adetokunbo Pearse, lecturer at the University of Lagos, said that never in the history of the country had life been so gloomy, stressing that poverty was having a devastated impact on the nation, maintaining that the problem was monumental but not intractable. He said that to grow the economy, the country must abolish the inefficient and uneconomical type of governance, devolve powers to the States. “Fiscal devolution will give States unfettered access to their mineral resources currently held in the federal government’s exclusive list. States will no longer need federal guarantees to attract foreign investments for major projects. In a real federal structure the federal government’s gets its revenue by collecting taxes from the multiple layers of economic activities generated in various States” he said. Pearse, maintained that another critical change that must occur for the country to grow economically was to have an array of products and resources, a policy according to him, generally referred to as diversification. He pointed out that the general weakness of the nation’s economy was as a result of dependence on oil, as the source of over 80 percent of the country’s resources, which occasioned perennial weakness as a factor of the operation of mono-economy. He said that decentralization of government would accentuate the production of various products from the different regions, and mechanized farming, for example would greatly increase earnings from cash crops which abound in every State Dr Franca Attoh, senior lecturer, department of Sociology, University of Lagos, said that development would be faster in a federal system than a unitary system, stressing that competition among the regions or States would be rife, as every region would be eager to grow its economy. She maintained that before independence the three regions of the country were at par, unlike now that there are, what she called 20 States (Including Abuja) in the North and 17 in the South, which she noted also affected the third tier of government that is the local government. “The more Local Government Areas (LGA) that a State has, the more revenue from the federal government, for example old Kano had 44 LGAs before Jigawa State was created out of it, while Lagos State had 20 States as at time. With the creation of Jigawa State with 27 LGAs, old Kano State has 71 LGAs while Lagos State still has only 20 LGAs” she said. Attoh said that the various injustices had called for restructuring so that States and regions would stop shouting, marginalization, rather they would concentrate on what they would do to grow their States and regions, since they would no longer be depending on finances from the centre to operate.