LAGOS – Top of political events in the country this year is the Edo and Ondo state governorship elections. Already, the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo state has been torn apart between the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who had hitherto seen himself as the APC Leader in Edo by virtue of his being a former governor and the party’s national chairman, and the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki. Obaseki was a major character in Oshiomhole’s administration. Due to the rapport that existed between the two, he emerged as successor to the veteran trade unionist turned politician. So far, all efforts to repair the cracks caused by moves by both Obaseki and Oshiomhole to control the state’s House of Assembly, in the party have failed. The rushed moves by both the Senate and the House of Representatives to intervene could not yield mush fruits due to the suspicion by the governor’s camp that the National Assembly was dancing to the tune of the party’s national chairman. Obaseki and his camp, in a deft move, resorted to the courts to give legality to the appointment of principal officers of the state Assembly. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Presently, while the Edo lawmakers who are loyal to Oshiomhole have seemingly lost their seats, depending on if the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will conduct a by-election in their constituencies, Obaseki’s camp has gone further to suspend Oshiomhole in Edo North and appointed the Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu’s , as the party’s Leader there. He is from Etsako West as Oshiomhole. However, observers maintain that the saving grace for APC in Edo State will be an acceptable settlement of the crisis before the party’s primaries in the state. Already, Oshiomhole has encouraged the defection of former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, to defect to APC preparatory to running for the primaries against Obaseki. It is believed that Oshiomhole is working to deny the governor a return ticket in favour of his new found godson, Ize-Iyamu, a move which may lead to Obaseki’s defection to another party, possibly the PDP. Speaking on the Edo APC crisis, Hon. Charles Anike, National President of Eastern Union (EU), opined: “The crisis will present an interesting scenario. In Edo State, we see someone, Governor Godwin Obaseki, who claimed that he would have nothing to do with godfathrism, now trying to become a godfather and creating a godson. “He wants to be a one-man standing. Even the President has given him, the governor, power by saying he is the party’s Leader in Edo State and he is now suspending the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. If the crisis in Edo APC continues, the party will likely lose the election to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Although there are other parties in Edo State, they do not have structures in the state.” Anyway, events in the following months will determine whether APC can weather the current storm to retain the state, or tear to pieces in favour of the opposition. Still on Edo State, Comrade Fatayi Ibu-Owo, the Lagos State Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) said: “APC may also lose to the opposition party in Edo State. The raging battle between Governor Obaseki and the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, may be a major factor that will work against the ruling party, leading it to fail in the coming election. If the opposition is smart enough, the election may just be like the Bayelsa governorship election, where the PDP supported the APC governorship candidate.” However, as days run into months, the political landscape might become more interesting in the New Year as political activities would surely pick up and things would be clearer and more interesting in Edo State, as the APC’s stakeholders had been thinking of ways to bring both Oshiomhole and Obaseki to a round table. The Ondo Governorship Election Just as in Edo State, the current crisis in Ondo APC may dictate how the election will go. Despite efforts by the party’s stakeholders like Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the party’s National Leader, former Interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande; former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba and a former National Vice Chairman (South- West) of the party, Chief Pius Akinyelure, to resolve the crisis, there is yet no end in sight as the governor, Akeredolu is pitched against some of the party’s stakeholders. The crisis in Ondo APC started when Governor Akeredolu emerged the candidate of the APC during the governorship primary election held on September 3, 2016. There was a lot of dust following allegation that some persons at the APC national secretariat, then under the leadership of the former National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, allegedly helped Akeredolu to manipulate the result of the primary poll against the anointed candidate of Tinubu, Dr Segun Abraham, and other contestants. The other contestants in the primary were Chief Olusola Oke; Senator Tayo Alasoadura; Senator Ajayi Boroffice; Dr Tunji Abayomi and many others. Abraham, who emerged the first runner-up in the election, approached the Federal High Court to challenge the result of the primary, while Oke left the APC and defected to the Alliance for Democracy where he contested the governorship election. It was alleged that Tinubu’s loyalists withdrew their support from Akeredolu and supported Olusola Oke for the election. After winning the election proper, Akeredolu was expected to work for the end of the crisis. But it has continued to fester. Many believe that the fight was between Asiwaju Tinubu and Akeredolu because all his (Tinubu) loyalists withdrew their supports from Akeredolu, following the failure of Tinubu’s anointed candidate to emerge. With the ongoing crisis, it is believed that Akeredolu might be denied a return ticket. Tinubu’s political associates like Abraham, Boroffice, a former Chairman of the party in the state, Mr Isaacs Kekemeke; a former Commissioner for Regional Integration in Osun State, Mr Bola Ilori; a former member of the House of Representatives, Mr Bamidele Baderinwa, and others were believed to have taken instructions from him to work against the governor Akeredolu. Hence, all peace moves so far, have not yielded the desired result. Just like the Edo scenario, there is the fear that if the party fails to give Akeredolu a return ticket, he may defect to another party, thereby making APC to walk on a tight rope during the coming election, which may culminate in victory for the opposition. Speaking on the issue, Anike, the EU president maintained that Ondo governorship election in 2020 would witness a lot of drama. He said that the crisis may lead to voter apathy due to the fall-out of 2019 elections. Also, Nwosu stated that due to the crisis in the APC, Akeredolu would most likely lose the election and PDP would snatch the state from APC. He stressed: “APC has internal problems in Ondo, which is yet to be settled. PDP is waiting and working hard to take back the state from APC.” Ibu-Owo, the NCP chairman in the state, stated: “Historically, Ondo State used to belong to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before the opposition’s plot through the use of Jimoh Ibrahim and Ali Modu Sheriff disorganised the party and APC took over Ondo State. Presently, Ondo people are not happy with the anti-people’s policies of Akeredolu. So, power may change hands during the election.” Obaseki Akeredolu