Lagos – Chief Charles Idahosa, a former Commissioner for Information in Edo State on Friday said Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will disappoint Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a national leader of the party on the issue of the 2023 presidency. Speaking in an interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT,  Idahosa, a chieftain of the party said while Tinubu is supporting the embattled National chairman with the hope of assisting him to get the APC presidential ticket in 2023, Oshiomhole’s ambition is to become a running mate to a Northern presidential candidate. He said Oshiomhole is working for the emergence of a presidential candidate of northern extraction in 2023. “I feel so sorry for Tinubu because he doesn’t know who Oshiomhole is. I am aware he is one of those giving him support as National chairman. “Oshiomhole will disappoint him seriously. He will not support him in 2023; he can take that to the bank. “Tinubu is one of the people supporting him as National chairman thinking that Oshiomhole will use his influence as National chairman to make him get the ticket. “What he doesn’t know is that Oshiomhole’s ambition is to become Vice- President to a northern presidential candidate in 2023. He is going to pair a northern candidate against the interest of Tinubu.” Also speaking on the statement by the APC’s National Vice Chairman (North-East), Mr. Mustapha Salihu who said Oshiomhole can no longer function as National chairman of the party having been suspended, Idahosa said Salihu spoke the minds of Edo APC leaders who also believe that any actions taken by Oshiomhole now amounts to illegality. “The APC vice chairman in North East was stating the obvious. As far as we are concerned in Edo, Oshiomhole is no longer the national chairman of APC. “The constitution in Article 21 is very clear on how members of the party can be dealt with. But because of the ignorance of many of his followers, they think once you are National chairman, you are above the law. “First and foremost, you are a member of the party even if you are National chairman and like the President said in his speech when the Caucus met, he said it is bottom up. “You have to be relevant in your unit, ward and local government before coming to Abuja to take big titles. Oshiomhole has no legitimacy, he has been suspended by his ward but he decided to ignore the suspension because he never respected party constitution” he said.