LAGOS – The launch of Operation Amotekun by governors of the six South West states of the country, has been described a laudable and welcome development, which is likely to bring an end to security challenges in part of the country. At the same time, many are expressing fears that the initiative may end up becoming unsustainable as some of the governors are gradually withdrawing from the initiative. The security formation was initiated by the South West states, namely Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Osun and Ekiti, to tackle the problem of insecurity within the region. It is expected to complement the efforts of the police force in tackling the issue of kidnapping, armed robbery, as well as the menace of herdsmen, who have in recent times engaged in various deadly clashes with farmers. According to the initiators, the security outfit, after its takeoff, will bring about the needed safety of lives and property as prescribed by 1999 Constitution (as amended), which states, “The security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Membership of the outfit comprises vigilante groups operating within each state, security experts and statutory security agencies such as the police and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps. Though a regional outfit, each state will have its own Amotekun in the form of a state police command. They will operate from a given base in each state. There will also be local government organs, which will coordinate Amotekun activities in each local government. But, the six state commands will relate with the regional command to which each has contributed vehicles equipped with security and communication gadgets. The regional command will operate from the control centre in Ibadan, and will work closely with the DAWN Commission, which provides administrative supervision to the project. As it was gathered, Amotekun will be funded by the state governments with support from their security trust funds, as the Commissioner of Police in each of the states involved will oversee the operations. It was also learnt that the participating states have recruited many of the unconventional security personnel. As a local collaborative measure, Amotekun will gather information about crimes and suspicious activities for interpretation and proper action, including prevention, management or counteraction. The operation module of the local security outfit will include, undertaking routine patrols in parts of highways in the region, which police are unable to adequately cover day and night. Working with traditional rulers, its activities will also permeate local communities to keep an eye on suspicious residents, visitors and non-residents coming for business or related activities. However, there were strong indications on Wednesday that intrigues among South West governors and interference by the Federal Government were hreatening the security apparatus. It was gathered that although all the region’s governors agreed to set up the security outfit at a summit organised by the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission in June 2019, some of them had started developing cold feet. It was revealed that some forces within the Presidency as well as the police high hierarchy were not favourably disposed to the idea, as they considered it as part of restructuring agenda, which the South West had been pushing for. This according to reliable sources was part of the reasons why some of the governors have begun to shift away from the idea. At the launch, which took place yesterday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, Dapo Abiodun of Osun and Gboyega Oyetola were conspicuously absent. But speaking at the inauguration of the outfit yesterday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi dispelled rumours making the rounds that Operation Amotekun would work as a regional police force. Fayemi stated that the Southwest governors were not out to undermine the integrity and sovereignty of Nigeria but were providing the Yoruba people with a “confidence-building strategy” to tackle crime and criminality in the region, adding that Amotekun was neither an alternative to any of the conventional security agencies in the country nor a state police. Speaking further, the Ekiti State governor explained that Amotekun would complement and work in collaboration with existing security agencies to provide adequate security of lives and property in the region. His words: “The Western Nigeria Security Network operation Amotekun is nothing but a community policing response to a problem that our people would like to put an end to. But pending the time that the community policing strategy being put together by the Nigeria Police comes to fruition, it is clearly important that we give our people a confidence boosting strategy. “So if you ask me, Amotekun is nothing but a confidence building strategy for our people in the western zone. When those elements that are going to work in the joint task force with the mainstream security agencies undertake this assignment, they are going to do it with the knowledge of the terrain, language and culture of the community they are going to work.” “Amotekun is not a duplication neither is it a replacement for the Nigeria Police Force. Amotekun is a complement that gives our people the confidence that they are being looked after by the people they elected into office. We do not want this to create fear in the mind of anyone. We are not creating a regional police force. We are not oblivious of the steps we need to follow in forming State police. We are law abiding citizens of Nigeria. We know that will require a constitutional amendment and we are not there yet,” he said. Fayemi who added that the security agencies have embraced the Western Nigeria Security Network, urged Nigerians not to give room for fears, which may have emanated from the propaganda circulating in the social media about Amotekun. ”We were daily assaulted by the spate of kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery across the length and breadth of the South West. We obviously sought succour in all the right places and the mainstream security tried their best in arresting the security situation. It was in the context of this development that we lost the daughter of our leader in Afenifere, Pa Fasoranti. “As elected leaders of our various States, our primary responsibility according to section (14)2 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, is the security and welfare of our citizens and that’s what informed the coming together of my colleagues and I to fashion a way that we can utilise to complement the work of our mainstream security agencies that are quite overstretched in their efforts to curb the menace that has afflicted not just our zone but the entire country at the time,” Fayemi added. In his speech, the Chairman of the Western Nigeria Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu said the governors are united in their resolve to ensure peace and security in the region. Akeredolu stated that the South West governors cannot erect “an antagonistic structure whose template is against existing security apparatus”, maintaining that the ”barbarism” displayed by criminal elements in the region gave the governors grave concern which necessitated the security platform. He pointed out that he and his colleagues believed in the unity of Nigeria because the nation’s strength is in unity. For his part, the host of the event, Governor Seyi Makinde stated that development cannot take place in a state of insecurity, adding that Amotekun would protect the lives and property of indigene and non indigene. The Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba Land, Iba Gani Adams while speaking with journalists in Lagos on Wednesday, expressed confidence that the launch of outfit will put an end to criminality in the region. Adams, who described the initiative as a welcome development, stated that the idea was long overdue, just as he explained that Yorubas have been expecting the initiative long ago. “I can tell you authoritatively that Yoruba people are happy with this operation Amotekun, anybody you see criticising Amotekun is either a sadist or such person doesn’t value lives. “Amotekun is not the real state police we are asking for but I just see it as a temporary means of tackling crimes in the South West. “Ordinarily, we agitate for state police but if we don’t have state police now, something has to be done because state police can bring constitutional issues that may lead to amendment of our constitution. But a security outfit that will be controlled by the state government is highly needed now.” Speaking further, Adams disclosed that there are information and security reports at his disposal to the effect that forces and criminal elements from Chad, Libya, Mali, Niger, have infiltrated the South West. He explained that security threats confronting the Yoruba Land have gone beyond kidnapping and Fulani herdsmen predicaments. According to him, “When we were young, we only know of certain secret cult groups but today, you have so many cult groups at motor parks, garages and in the streets, that is another major security threat that we have in the south west apart from the external Fulanis that have invaded our land. “We believe that if the internal Fulanis had not opened the doors to them, they wouldn’t have come in. Amotekun will solve so many issues even beyond the Fulani herdsmen crisis. We also have information that some Yoruba people have connived with these criminal elements and are giving them information as to who and who they should kidnap to get money.” While commending the South West governors for the initiative, he pointed out that what they have done is in the interest of the Yoruba Land and therefore should be supported by all. “What the governors are doing now concerning Amotekun is in the interest of Yoruba land, so we have to support them. Once this is launched, you will see that within one month, criminals will move back and they will know that the South West is not longer a safe haven,” Adams added. The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere on its part, believe that Southwest governors are only pretending about finding a lasting solution to the insecurity challenges facing the region. Yinka Odumakin, the National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, said the action of the governors is an attempt to give the impression that they are doing something about the security issue.