LAGOS – A fatal accident occurred early Tuesday morning involving not less than seven vehicles, crushing two persons to death and injuring three others, including two commercial motorcyclists who were critically injured. The devastation instigated the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) to reiterate its tough stand against street trading. The Ota Area Commander, TRACE, Ajibade Adekunle, and FRSC Ota Unit Commander, Ganiyu Akeem, while confirming the accident said it occurred when a containerised truck coming from the sloppy axis of Sango had brake failure and hit the other vehicles at the rear. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The truck also ran over a group of commuters waiting to board commercial buses at tollgate bus stop, and ended up crushing one person to death and four injured at the scene. One of the four injured later died at the hospital.” The vehicles involved are AG l676 CV Mack Blue Colour, BDG 976 XF, LT Yellow Bus, YA 226 AAA, LT White Colour, GGE 272 XY, LT Yellow Colour, LAR 355 WM Boxer Red Colour, TTD 067UJ Boxer Red. Speaking in a telephone interview on Tuesday with DAILY INDEPENDENT, TRACE Corps Commander, ‘Seni Ogunyemi, said, the casualties would have been higher if the accident happened during the day. “You can imagine what would have happened if the accident had happened during the thick period of the day when the scene at the toll gate is filled with traders with their wares and buyers patronising them; we have enough of careless and avoidable deaths from road accidents in Ogun State,” he said. Ogunyemi said, “TRACE would commence a Joint Task Force with the Local Government Health Workers (Wolewole), the Civil Defence, the police and other security personnel to mount daily surveillance on every nook and cranny notorious for street trading in the state. The TRACE boss said areas to be given special attention include, Tollgate, Ota; Makun in Sagamu where one life was also lost recently, Ifo, where an accident killed a street hawker on new year eve, Oke Ajegunle in Ijebu-Ode, where two persons were killed in an accident, Itoku, Sapon, in Abeokuta, Odeda, where one life was lost on Tuesday and Owode market and Idiroko in Yewa. He said most of the victims in the various accidents across the state were either commuters or street hawkers who refused to heed several warnings against breaking traffic rules.