Awka – Ifeatu Obi-Okoye, Special Adviser to Governor Willie Obiano on Political Matters, has lambasted the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), saying that the party unleashed terror and mayhem on Anambra State citizens when it was in power. Obi-Okoye was reacting to the new year message released by the state chairman of the PDP in Anambra, Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, wherein claimed that the state was facing trying times under the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) government, following alleged misappropriation of resources by the state governor. The governor’s aide reaction was contained in a press statement made available to journalists in Awka at the weekend. He said that the PDP should be reminded that Anambra citizens have not forgotten the dark days of jungle justice and misrule of the party, alleging that citizens were killed, maimed and hostage-taking became the order of the day. Obi-Okoye’s reaction read,  “Regrettably, I have referred to Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu as the factional chairman of PDP in Anambra State. I say so because barely a week ago a High Court had nullified the contraption, which installed him as state chairman of PDP, and declared one Chief 0guebego as the authentic chairman of PDP in Anambra State. “Be that as it may, we would advise the opposition, particularly the PDP, to be more constructive in its criticisms and shun infantile tendencies, which do not promote the wellbeing of the good people of Anambra State. “The present APGA-led state government, under the watch of Governor Willie 0biano, has without doubt, set the bar of leadership, social and economic development in Anambra State on a high pedestal that has attracted national and international attention and acclaim, hence any unbridled criticism by the opposition must be based on the parameters of achievement attained by the Governor Willie 0biano-led administration. “Therefore the opposition, and more so, the PDP must offer genuine and constructive alternatives to the high leadership and developmental achievements of this administration under Governor Willie 0biano. “Hence, the PDP opposition must explain and offer to the people of Anambra State better alternatives, and how differently they can achieve better developmental goals for our people, different and more sustainable than the achievements attained in Anambra State in the last five years under Governor Willie 0biano. “The PDP must, for instance, tell us how they intend to provide a better and secure environment different. “In this regard, the PDP must be reminded that the good people of Anambra State have not forgotten the dark days of misrule under PDP when primitive measures such as the use of the Bakassi Boys was offered by PDP administration in Anambra state as their solution to security issues.” “We have not forgotten that the same Bakassi Boys were unleashed by the PDP on the good people of Anambra State as an instrument of terror and vendetta against the opposition. We have not forgotten the abduction and gruesome murder of Barrister Igwe and his pregnant wife under the watch of a PDP Government for his opposition on the policies of the PDP Government in Anambra State at the time.”