Iba Gani Adams, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland is the Convener of the South- West Stakeholders Security Group (SSSG). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on the launch of Western Nigeria Security Outfit codenamed Operation Amotekun billed to be launched on January 9 and controversies surrounding it. Excerpts: The security outfit codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’ is billed to take off in three days’ time. What is the level of preparation between you and the South-West governors? We haven’t heard anything from the governors and I am saying that on the matter of security of the South-West, the governors should know the appropriate quarters to contact for the recruitment. If they had not mentioned our name in the operation, that could have been another issue. We have been reading about this publication since last year and we realise that the issue is becoming deeper than we think. We decided to hold our first meeting as South-West Security Stakeholders Security Group (SSGS) but when we realise that the date for the kick-off of the operation is becoming close and many Nigerians, especially the Yoruba people have been calling us that are we battle ready to complement the efforts of security agencies? But we have no answer to give to them because there has been no contact from the governors. I spoke with Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state five days ago and he told me that the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN Commission will liaise with us. I then called the Director-General of the DAWN Commission, Seye Oyeleye but he also told me that the issue of recruitment is not in their hands. He added that the state governors are the ones handling that. We now realise that if we don’t clear our name in public opinion and for the sake of history, if this operation fails, people will be putting the blame on the Aare Ona Kakanfo and saying things like ‘So, you are not even capable to function in your office as the Yoruba generalissimo? So, you are incapable in complementing the efforts of the security agencies to secure the South-West? When this incident happened, the impression they gave me as the Aare Ona Kakanfo based on the history of this position traditionally is even more than that of the governors. So, I am alerting the whole world on this issue because we have no knowledge about the recruitment of members of the Amotekun operation. From information made available to us, we heard that Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state has even called some vigilante groups that are unknown to us and has recruited 430 people from these groups. Many of these are the political errand boys in the Government House but a lot of people will think OPC members and other members of the alliance that we formed in July 2019 are involved. If this operation fails, then it would have failed our history based on our antecedents on private security in Nigeria. What is your message to the governors especially now that we have just three days to the launch of the security outfit? We are telling them not to politicise the issue of security because if they do that, history will not be kind to them. As a student of history who has been involved in political events since 1980, last year was the first time the six South-West governors will sit down together and discuss the way forward for the South-West region and Yorubaland. The meeting the IGP called on security summit, we have three governors and three deputy governors in attendance. A communiqué was issued and the IGP in his wisdom even acknowledged the fact that he will partner with the OPC and other security groups to make sure that the South- West region is secured. I was in the meeting and all these people they are recruiting today are not there. How could we begin a journey on a very good footing and ended it on a wrong note? That to me is very unfortunate. As the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, have you informed the monarchs in the South-West that the governors are uncooperative on this issue of finding a lasting solution to insecurity in the country? All our traditional rulers read the newspapers and they also listen to news. I believe what the monarchs will think is that since our name was included in the operation, the governors are already talking to us. Now, I am using this medium to tell the traditional rulers and Nigerians that nobody has contacted us on the security arrangement. If it fails, don’t blame me or other security groups that form the SSSG. There is nobody who didn’t read it in the newspapers that OPC is involved in the security arrangement, yet three days to the commencement, I haven’t heard anything from the governors. How can anybody mention OPC without including me? Aside the fact that I am the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, I still remain the National Coordinator of OPC. Do they expect me to resign from OPC because I am Aare? If because I am the Aare, I now resign from OPC, where will I get the security or warriors to use in securing Yorubaland? The warriors are in OPC. Now aside OPC, we have formed an alliance called SSSG which came into existence in July 2019. We wrote letters to all the governors, we wrote security adviser, Director of DSS and Commissioners of Police. So, they can’t pretend not to what is happening but we Yorubas like politicising all issues. Now, that we have agreed that we should begin the Operation Amotekun outfit, you now want to recruit area boys in your political parties to confront Fulanis with AK-47. They will just waste the lives of those boys. Who can look after a child better if not the mother? When you have somebody who has fought several wars and faced dangerous criminals without government support, don’t you think the person will able to achieve much more with full government support? That is why we are alerting the world to know what is going on. We are not begging to be included because the issue of securing Yorubaland is a matter of life and death. What do you think is the way forward? The governors of the South-West should do the needful. On our part, we have set up a 7-man committee which will be the liaising committee with the state governments. It now depends on the governors if our committee will liaise with the Security Advisers or any other person within the government. If they said we should liaise with the DAWN Commission, we are ready. When we meet, the modalities on recruitment of members will be addressed. What I and others in the SSSG are doing now is to exonerate ourselves and clear our names so that if the security arrangement boomerangs, Yoruba people at home and those in the diaspora who have been calling us on our efforts to address insecurity in the South-West to know that we know nothing about the launch of the Operation which will kick off on January 9. They only included our names in the newspapers for formality sake. Nobody should blame us if the arrangement fails. With what you have said, do you think the January 9 date is feasible? It is very feasible. January 9 can be the inaugural date. Later, we can have the recruitment and the psychological trainings of the members. Amotekun is not meant to be a full policing outfit. It is for intelligence gathering and to complement the efforts of the security agencies. It is not a regular state police, according to them. So, there must be a psychological training, if not full training for them to boost their morale, educate and give them the modes of operation within the outfit. That can be done in a week after the opening ceremony on January 9.