Less than six weeks after Rafael Nadal helped Spain win the inaugural Davis Cup finals in Madrid, the world’s best male players will again represent their countries at a rival team competition, the ATP Cup. Set up by the men’s tour with the carrot of huge prize money and ranking points, the new event features 24 teams playing over 10 days in three Australian cities in January. Great Britain are among the nations competing after Andy Murray, using an injury protected ranking of two, made a late decision to enter. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network However, former world number one Murray pulled out of the event – and the Australian Open, which starts on 20 January – with a pelvic injury just six days before Britain’s opening match. Here is everything you need to know about the new addition to the start of the 2020 tennis calendar. The 24-nation event features six groups of four teams, who each play three round-robin ties. The ties – comprising two singles matches and one doubles – are best of three. The six group winners, plus the best two runners-up, will progress to the quarter-finals. Group matches are taking place on outdoor hard courts in Sydney, Brisbane and Perth. The knockout stage – the Final Eight – will be played at Sydney’s Ken Rosewall Arena. The final is on 12 January, which is eight days before the start of the opening Grand Slam event of the year – the Australian Open. There is a prize pot of 22m Australian dollars (£11.6m) and a player can win up to 750 singles ranking points. Nine of the world’s top 10 players are in action, with only Swiss great Roger Federer absent after he withdrew to spend more time with his family. The strongest team on paper in terms of their two highest ranked singles players are Spain, with world number one Rafael Nadal and world number nine Roberto Bautista Agut. The six groups Group A: Serbia, France, South Africa, Chile Group B: Spain, Japan, Georgia, Uruguay Group C: Belgium, Great Britain, Bulgaria, Moldova Group D: Russia, Italy, United States, Norway Group E: Austria, Croatia, Argentina, Poland Group F: Germany, Greece, Canada, Australia