LAGOS – The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, yes­terday stated that over $6 billion has so far been invested by the Federal Government for the re­suscitation of Ajaokuta Steel Com­pany. Adegbite, who made the disclo­sure during an
interactive session with the media in Lagos, said that over 10,000 engineers
would be em­ployed when the plant begins full operation. According to him, “The Feder­al Government needs to
work with the state governments and ensure that mining is done properly and
becomes beneficial to everybody – the miners, local, states and Fed­eral
Government. It will also cre­ate employment opportunities for Nigerians. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “When the company begins operation, it is projected that over 10,000
engineers and several thou­sands of graduates of other fields would be
employed. It will also save us capital flight as most of the product would be
exported to other countries. “Besides, the rising trend of crimes across the country can be
attributed to unemployment. When this company becomes operational, most idle
hands would be engaged positively and this will tackle inse­curity.” He frowned at the activities of illegal miners across the country,
saying it may soon come to an end as the Federal Government has de­clared a war
against them, as their operations were said to create holes in the revenue of
the government and pose danger to the lives of the people and their environments. Adegbite explained that more deliberate efforts would be made by the
government to curb the menace in the country. He noted that the bilateral agree­ment between Nigeria and Russia to
resuscitate the now derelict steel factory complex is coming after for­ty
years. He said the accord to revive the Ajaokuta project was reached during a
meeting between Nigeri­an President Muhammadu Buhari and Russian President
Vladimir Putin in Russia in October 2019. “At present, the dilapidated steel factory complex has failed to pro­duce
a single bar, coil or rod, despite billions of dollars in public funding and
multiple ownership changes. “Ajaokuta is will make steel a viable target for government’s rev­enue
campaign, and also offer the scope to develop other industries. “The plant has a 68 kilometre road network, and is meant to ac­commodate
24 housing estates, a seaport and a 110mw power gener­ation plant, and if
operational, it could provide nearly a million jobs. “As the Federal Government strives to diversify the economy through
mining and steel sector, the revitalization of Ajaokuta Steel Company to
produce optimally is of utmost concern to the present administration,” Adegbite
added.