BAUCHI – President Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Comrade Chris Isiguzo, has appealed to the Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, to imple­ment the weigh-in salary and allowances for media practitioners considering the hazards of the profession and the services they offer. He also commended the governor for appointing tech­nocrats into his cabinet, par­ticularly media practitioners which includes former Di­rector General of Federal Radio Corporation (FRCN), Dr Ladan Saliu, and current Deputy President of the NUJ, Comrade Muktar Gidado. Isiguzo said that he was in Bauchi to interact with journal­ists and various chapels of the union to have firsthand account of their challenges and best pos­sible way to address them. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The NUJ president said he was impressed with report of a good working relationship between Journalists and the administration and urged the tempo to be sustained. Mr Isoguzo, who was in Bauchi in the company of other national officials of the union, gave the commenda­tion when he paid a courtesy call on Mohammed. The president, who earlier toured the road and water project s being executed by the Mohammed administration, commended the governor for the initiatives, saying they would uplift the living stan­dard of the people. “The governor, as a former journalist, is making us proud with the laudable and people oriented projects since he as­sumed office and considering his background as a journal­ist, I not surprised,” he said While thanking the gov­ernor for the hospitality ac­corded him and his entourage, he also appealed to the state government to ensure that the state-owned media outfits were digitalised for the practi­tioners to complete with their counterparts in other places. In his remarks, Moham­med, who was represented by his Deputy, Senator Baba Tela, thanked the NUJ presi­dent for the visit to the state and the commendation. The governor assured that the administration would en­sure that the relationship with journalists is sustained by en­suring the welfare of journal­ists and their contributions to the development of the state are recognised and rewarded. He assured that the process of digitalisation of the state-owned media outfits was on and had been captured in the 2020 budget even as he assured that the government was look­ing into the weigh-in salaries for Journalists.