Abuja – The House of Representatives was restive on Wednesday when a bill seeking to establish a Federal Polytechnic in Orogun, Delta State, which came from the Senate, was about to be introduced. The bill, ‘Federal Polytechnic, Orogun, Delta State (Establishment) Bill, 2020 (HB.642) (Senate)’, which was the second item on the order paper, slated for first reading, met with stiff hostility following a point of order raised against it by Ossai Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta). Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the House, had invited the clerk to take the first reading of the bill, which was among twelve bills slated for first reading. However, when the clerk rose up to perform his function, he was restrained by the point of order swiftly raised by Ossai. Having been recognised by the presiding officer to take his point of order, Ossai, who was apparently displeased with the bill, took to the floor to air his grievances. He told the House that it (the House) had recently sent to the Senate a similar bill seeking to establish a federal polytechnic in the same Senatorial district but that the Senate, rather than treat the bill, stepped it down. Ossai expressed shock that the Senate, in what looked like coming through the back door, represented a similar bill, with similar contents, but with a change in the location of the polytechnic. “This House passed a bill to the Senate, the bill came up on the order paper of the Senate, but the Senate stepped it down. Today, a similar bill is brought from the Senate to this House,” Ossai told the House, seeking to tender in evidence the Senate’s votes of proceedings containing his claims. Having taken a recap of Ossai’s submission to avoid error of clarity, the presiding officer, Gbajabiamila, sustained the point of order. Consequently, the speaker directed the chairman, Rules and Business of the House, to move that the bill be stepped down until all the issues surrounding it were cleared. Thus, the speaker subsequently ruled and stepped down the bill by leave of the House. Speaking with Daily Independent on why he opposed such a lofty bill that would bring development to Delta State and also empower his constituents, Ossai said that was far from his intention. He insisted that legislatively, what the Senate did was wrong and that the House could not have been allowed to progress in error. Ossai disclosed that he first sponsored a bill of that nature, with similar contents, seeking to establish a federal polytechnic at Kwale, Delta State. The legislator averred that Orogun was a close town of about 30 kilometres to Kwale, where the polytechnic was first proposed to be established. He wondered why the Senate chose to dump his good intention for his constituency only to come up with a similar move behind him to rob Kwale of their God-given opportunity to have a federal presence. “That bill came before Orogun’s own and you are taking it, while Kwale’s was dropped,” Ossai said. He disclosed that his protest was predicated upon the fact that such institution would never be sited again in Kwale, which first sought it, if allowed to be sited in Orogun, as two federal polytechnics could not be established in one Senatorial district. Ossai, who viewed the dropping of the bill from the House by Senate as an affront, told Daily Independent that lawmakers in both chambers enjoyed equal privileges, and that he saw no basis for what the Senate did. The lawmaker, therefore, insisted that the Senate had no right to step down anything sent to it by the House of Representatives for concurrence, only to re-present it and expect the House to give it a concurrence.