Ahmed Musa; Ubong Ukpong; Samson Nwafor In view of the state of insecurity across the country, the House of Representatives, on Wednesday, disclosed its plans to embark on a constitution review to accommodate ‘Operation Amotekun’ and other similar security interventions. Consequently, Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the House, has directed the majority and minority leaders of the House to identify relevant amendments to be considered in order to realise the plan. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Gbajabiamila, in his welcome address on the floor on Wednesday, after the long recess, did not hide his feelings over the state of insecurity in the country. He pointed out that the current security situation was laden with several limitations. The speaker, who warned security agencies that the Nigerian people’s cup of endurance had run over, told his colleagues that since they last convened in the chambers, there had been developments in the public space that concerned them. He said: “We have witnessed across the country, a recognisable uptick in crime, manifested through the activities of bandits destroying communities, kidnappers operating for profit and insurgents seeking to remake our world in the image of a discredited theocracy. “All people of conscience mourn the loss of a reverend and a senior member of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Adamawa State, Mr. Lawan Adimi, a good and honourable man, who through the church and in his personal capacity served the people of his community earning their reverence and our collective gratitude. “In the midst of our mourning, our hearts were broken once more by the release of a video depicting the gruesome assassination of Mr. Ropvil Dalep Daciya, a student from Plateau State who was abducted by suspected Boko Haram terrorists on his way back to school at the University of Maiduguri. “God forbid that it is now our nation’s fate to live forever under the threat of abduction and murder. “What gaps and weaknesses continue to exist in the national security infrastructure that makes us more susceptible to the machinations of those who seek to achieve wealth and power through brutal violence? “How do we achieve for all our people, a just and honourable peace? These questions are never too far from my mind, and I know that it is the same for you too because often it is you who are at the frontlines responding to the concerns of constituents who have themselves been victimised and those who fear that the moment of their own affliction is only a matter of time and circumstance. “Honourable colleagues, this House will shortly take action to put these questions before those agencies of our national security to whom our constitution and other legislations have granted the powers and the resources to ensure the safety and security of all our people. “Our cup of endurance has run over and we are no longer willing to labour under these dark clouds of random violence inflicted upon our people by faceless cowards whose ends we do not understand, and whose means we do not know. “Overcoming our overwhelming national security challenges now require of us all that we be willing to accept new approaches and consider novel ideas. “Neither the security institutions nor political leaders can afford to hold on too tightly to a status quo whose frustrating limitations are painfully evident, whilst reflexively rejecting innovations that may improve our fortunes if properly implemented. “Recently, the governors of Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Ekiti, Oyo, and Ondo states took action to implement a regional security network to support the efforts of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in preventing crime and protecting the lives and property of those our citizens who live, work, and travel through these states. “The establishment of Àmòtékùn, as the network is called, has met with commentary from across the country, both for and against. “Too often, it has seemed to me that lost in these interactions is the hard, brutal, and unavoidable fact that Àmòtékùn and other such state or zonal interventions that already quietly exist in other parts of the country are a desperate response to the vile manifestations of insecurity that trouble the lives of citizens, depriving them of the peace and security that gives life meaning. “I do not know that Àmòtékùn or whatever iterations of it may follow represents the ultimate or perfect solution to the problem of insecurity in our country. Nobody does. “What I do know with absolute clarity and certainty is that the localised manifestations of insecurity across the different parts of our country call for unique and localised approaches that take those peculiarities into account. “What I also know is that whichever approach we seek, we are obligated to work within the limits imposed by the constitution to which we all swear allegiance. “Above all else, I am certain in the knowledge that doing nothing is not an option. We have a responsibility as legislators to support the best efforts of those who act with noble intent to protect our citizens. “I, therefore, call on the leader of the House of Representatives and the minority leader to take active steps to bring to the floor, appropriate amendments to the constitution that will ensure that these and other righteous interventions to protect the lives and property of our citizens are firmly in compliance with the laws of the land.” Reps Demand Resignation Of Service Chiefs Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has called for the resignation of all service chiefs following the deteriorating security situation in the country. This was sequel to the unanimous adoption of a motion by Mohammed Monguno (APC-Borno) at plenary on Wednesday. The House urged President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the service chiefs, if they fail to resign. Moving the motion earlier, Monguno said that territorial integrity of Nigeria was being threatened following the resurgence of insurgency in the North East. Mongonu who represents Monguno/Marte/Nganzai Federal Constituency of Borno said that the attacks by the Boko Haram insurgents in the North-East zone have lingered for more than seven years. He recalled that when President Muhammadu Buhari came into power in 2015, the activities of insurgents were reduced to the barest minimum. Monguno said that the feat achieved by the Nigerian armed forces had led to increased economic activities within the North-East zone. He, however, said, “Recently, the Boko Haram insurgents who were relegated to the background are now unleashing terror in Borno and Yobe states. “The insurgents have forced the Nigerian military to close traffic on the Damaturu-Maiduguri road for some days; the Damaturu-Maiduguri road is the only access from Maiduguri to other parts of Nigeria. “The closure of the road is an indication that the Boko Haram insurgents have seized the road and attacked communities on that axis.” According to him, incessant attacks on communities along the Damaturu-Maiduguri road, have forced the residents to flee to refugee camps in Maiduguri for safety. Also, Ahmadu Jaha (APC-Borno) called for the sacking of the service chiefs, saying that they have failed to decimate Boko Haram in the North-East. Jaha, who represents Chibok/Damboa/Gwoza Federal Constituency of Borno, said that contrary to the claims by the military, his constituents were still being attacked and displaced. “I know what I am saying; I know that tomorrow, people can come for me; I am calling for immediate removal of all the service chiefs and their immediate replacement with competent ones. “The truth of the matter is that they have overstayed and the officers under them are not stimulated (motivated) to work, perform and to end this war,” he said. After unanimous adoption of the motion, the speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila mandated the Committee on Defence to ensure implementation of the resolution. We’ve Formed Our Own Joint Security Taskforce —South-East Govs Meanwhile, the chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum and governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, revealed on Wednesday that the zone has formed its own joint security taskforce. Umahi, who disclosed this, said the South East governors had written to the Federal Government about the formation of the joint security taskforce. He said the forum had met with the service chiefs over the joint security taskforce and had agreed on modalities for operating the security outfit. Umahi also called for a re-evaluation of the security architecture in the zone. Governor Umahi stated this in Abakaliki, the state capital, when he received the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. I. A. Adegboye, who paid him a courtesy call at the Government House, Abakaliki. He called for a synergy among the South-East region to tackle security issues and commended security agents in Ebonyi State and the state vigilance group, Neighbourhood Security Watch, for ensuring that there was adequate security in the state. He said: “Every region has their own peculiarities and we have formed our own joint security taskforce, and we have written to the Federal Government and we are putting things together because we had a joint meeting with all the service chiefs and the then GOC. “So, we discussed and agreed on what we need to do to continue to give safety to our people in the South East. “No one will say that he will not be part of joint security because when people are kidnapped, for example, in Anambra State, they could be found in Ebonyi. “So, we need that synergy to work together to give protection to everybody and, here in Ebonyi, we are among the first in the federation to start our law on internal security and that is the Neighbourhood Watch, and they have fantastically done very well. “I am happy that the police, the army, the SSS – they are ashamed to proclaim that our Neighbourhood Security Watch has done very well. “And so, we can say we are the safest state in the country and no joke about that. “So, it is important we re-evaluate our security architecture and then see how we can assure our people of their safety. “These days, it is not very easy to travel from one state to another. “We have to evaluate all these things. But in the South East, I can say that God has really defeated violence, armed robbery, and Kidnapping.” Earlier, the GOC assured the region of adequate security. “Your Excellency, it is our duty to continue doing what we are doing while you sleep with your two eyes closed. We are ready to work round the clock to ensure peace and security in the zone,” he told Umahi.