LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari in his New Year message spoke to Nigerians as has been the tradition. However, days after, his message this year is still causing ripples among the citizens, as they are divided over what he said. While a cross section of people believe that the speech, titled, ‘A Letter From The President At New Year’s Nigeria’s Decade’ raised fresh hope  for Nigerians and have been commanding it, others see it as a rigmarole, an epistle that said a lot, but contains very little. While Buhari’s supporters expressed hope that he got it this time around, his critics maintain that like a leopard, the president who is now in his second term, believe that a leopard does not change its spot, and that it would be wishful thinking believing him on his words. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Speech: Buhari in the speech said the remaining part of his administration would focus on taming violent extremism and dwindling economy. He admitted that it had not been easy for his government to confront the plethora of crimes, ranging from violent extremists, cultism and organised criminal networks. On the economy, Buhari noted that his administration would find ways to exploit entrepreneurial skills and other measures that would promote genuine, balanced growth thereby delivering jobs and rewards industry. He said these accounted for his review of the Economic Advisory Council, bringing together respected and eminent Nigerians to fashion the way forward. The President said: “We have been fighting on several fronts: violent extremists, cultists and organised criminal networks. It has not been easy. But, as we are winning the war, we also look to the challenge of winning the peace, the reconstruction of lives, communities and markets. “The North East Development Commission will work with local and international stakeholders to help create a new beginning for the North East. “The Federal Government will continue to work with state governors, neighbouring states and our international partners to tackle the root causes of violent extremism and the networks that help finance and organise terror. “Our security forces will receive the best training and modern weaponry, and in turn will be held to the highest standards of professionalism, and respect for human rights. “We need a democratic government that can guarantee peace and security to realise the full potential of our ingenious, entrepreneurial and hardworking people. Our policies are de­signed to promote genuine, balanced growth that delivers jobs and rewards industry. “Our new Economic Advisory Council brings together respected and independent thinkers to advise me on a strategy that champions inclusive and balanced growth, and above all fight poverty and safeguard national economic interests. “As we have sat down to celebrate with friends and family over this holiday season, for the first time in a generation our food plates have not all been filled with imports of products we know can easily be produced here at home. The revolution in agriculture is already a reality in all corners of the country. “New agreements with Morocco, Russia and others will help us access on attractive terms the inputs we need to accelerate the transformation in farming that is taking place,” he stated. Buhari reiterated that his commitment to this inclusive growth was the signing of the African Continental Free Trade Area and the creation of the National Action Committee to oversee its implementation and ensure the necessary safe­guards are in place to allow us to fully capitalise on regional and continental markets. He commented on the border closure, including the joint land border security exercise, saying it is being implemented to safeguard Nigeria’s economy and security. “No one can doubt that we have been good neighbours and good citizens. We have been the helpers and shock absorbers of the sub-region, but we cannot allow our well-planned economic regeneration plans to be sabotaged. As soon as we are satisfied that the safeguards are adequate, normal cross-border movements will be resumed,” Buhari said. Buhari also commented on his political journey, giving an indication that he would quit the state at the end of his tenure, instead of plotting for a third term agenda as was being speculated. According to him, by 2023, he would calmly leave the political stage for a successor who must emerge through an electoral process that would be adjudged free, fair and credible. He also pledged to ensure smooth political transitions within the ECOWAS regional states. He stated: “Elections are the cornerstone of our democracy. I salute the commitment of the millions who voted in peace last February and of those leaders who contested for office vigorously, but fairly, submitting to the authority of the electorate, the Independent National Electoral Commission and judicial process. “I understand very well the frustrations our system has in the past triggered. I will be standing down in 2023 and will not be available in any future elections. But, I am determined to help strengthen the electoral process both in Nigeria and across the region, where several ECOWAS members go to the polls this year,” he stated. Buhari restates his commitment to pulling 100 million Nigerians out of the poverty index. He said 2020 would see his administration pursuing reforms in education, health care and water sanitation through partnerships with relevant stakeholders. He said: “During my Democracy Day speech on June 12, 2019, I promised to lay the enduring foundations for taking a hundred million Nigerians out of mass poverty over the next 10 years. “Today, I restate that commitment. We shall continue reforms in education, health care and water sanitation. I have met international partners such as GAVI, the vaccine alliance, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foun­dation who support our social welfare programmes.” He appealed to Nigerians to bear with his administration over some temporary pains being experienced across the country due to some major infrastructural projects. He said Nigerians and future generations would benefit immensely from the projects when completed. According to him, many of the projects being undertaken by his administration were projects previous administrations failed to do despite the resources at their disposal. Notable among these projects, he added, was the Lagos-Ibadan expressway which had been abandoned for years, but was currently being rehabilitated by his administration. Others, according to the President, are the Second Niger Bridge, Abuja-Kano high­way, Lagos to Kano rail line and others. He said: “Already, we are making key infrastructure investments to enhance our ease of doing business. On transportation, we are making significant progress on key roads such as the Second Niger Bridge, Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and the Abuja – Kano highway. 2020 will also see tangible progress on the Lagos to Kano Rail line. “Through Executive Order 007, we are also using alternative funding programmes in collaboration with private sector partners to fix strategic roads such as the Apapa-Oworonshoki Ex­press way. Abuja and Port Harcourt have new international airport terminals, as will Kano and Lagos in 2020”. “When completed, all these projects will positively impact business operations in the country. These projects are not small and do not come without some temporary disruption; we are doing now what should have been done a long time ago. I thank you for your patience and look forward to the dividends that we and future generations will long enjoy,” he said. While restating his commitment not to seek re-election in 2023, Buhari said his primary concern would be the safety and security of the country, especially from terrorists and other criminal elements. “As Commander-in-Chief, my primary concern is the security of the nation and the safety of our citizens. When I assumed office in May 2015 my first task was to rally our neighbours so that we could confront Boko Haram on a coordinated regional basis. Chaos is not a neighbour any of us hope for. “We have been fighting on several fronts: violent extremists, cultists and organised criminal networks. It has not been easy. But, as we are winning the war, we also look to the challenge of winning the peace, the reconstruction of lives, communities and markets. The North East Development Commission will work with local and international stakeholders to help create a new beginning for the North East.” Nigerians React Since he made the speech, a cross section of Nigerians had been reacting to it. Some of those who reacted are National Assembly members who called on the executive to hit the ground running and avoid the abysmal implementation of the federal budget as had been the situation. Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Petroleum Upstream, Gershom Bassey, and his counterpart in the  House of Representatives, Legor Idagbo, said the continue increase in federal budget without commensurate increase in its implementation had left many Nigerians to suffer. The federal lawmakers said the less than 20 percent performance of past budgets could be attributed to the systemic problems which only Buhari’s executive could tells Nigerians. They maintained that Buhari’s failure to address the budget performance in his nationwide address was because he could not attribute poor budget performance to lack of fund as there was money for the implementation, but the failure of the president’s team. APC Hails Speech Expectedly, the All Progressives Congress (APC), hailed the presidential speech. The party, it its reaction, said it was on the same page with Buhari on the issues of national development and respect for the rule of law. Lanre Issa-Onilu, the APC National Publicity Secretary,  said “It is our speech. We also issued a statement which reinforces some of these things contained in the President’s letter.” The APC also said: “The President Muhammadu Buhari government is vigorously tackling and solving the social, economic and security challenges our country faces one after the other.” ACF Commends Buhari The Arewa Consultative Forum, through its Secretary General, Anthony Sani, lauded Buhari’s speech, saying it marked a change of style and expectations in 2020. Sani stressed that the fact that Buhari said he was not contesting any election in 2023 meant that he would be less partisan, adding that he would play the role of a statesman and put the nation on the path of enduring socio-economic development. Buhari Passionate About Developing Nigeria – BMO Niyi Akinsiju, chairman, Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), urged Nigerians to ignore those criticising the speech, saying Buhari was passionate about developing the country. According to him, “Some people are only inspired by being verbose or semantics. The president is not given to frivolities. He is business minded. His intention is to create a bond with Nigerians. From the first alphabet he communicated his vision, commitment and passion. “It (the speech) was also a report of his government achievements and setting a timeline for delivery of some of his targets for the New Year. He put them in black and white so that people can take him up on his promises. We have gone beyond sloganeering. “What is clear is that this President is doing things differently from past presidents since 1999. What the President is doing has no undercurrent of selfish interests. He has given state officials free hands to interpret his vision and deliver. “The past governments wasted state funds of the oil boom era between 2006 and 2014 and did nothing. Our revenue generation has reduced by more than 45 per cent compared to that period but the President is managing the situation well by plugging leakages.” Message Raises No Hope – PDP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the New Year speech was completely “uninspiring, tasteless, repetitive, vacuous and did not galvanise any form of hope for Nigeria.” PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, urged Buhari to have the courage to issue a fresh New Year message to show remorse for the alleged corruption, incompetence and misrule of his regime. Ologbondiyan said: “Buhari should withdraw his unnecessary remark in his New Year message about standing down in 2023, as he and his party, the APC, would have no other option, but to exit office at the end of this tenure. “Indeed, President Buhari should stop presenting a picture as if he had the option to continue in office beyond 2023. “The PDP holds, in total submission to the letter and spirit of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), that it is not an issue of ‘standing down’ or not being ‘available’ for future elections, but a decided and inevitable position as contained in our constitution that he must quit office after two terms which will end in 2023. “Mr. President, therefore, does not have any other choice before the law. Whether President Buhari likes it or not, he and his APC will exit the arena at the end of this tenure. History is replete with lessons from those who sought to stretch our nation beyond her limits.” According to him, Buhari should also order the immediate prosecution of his party leaders who  allegedly perpetrated violence in the 2019 general elections as well as the governorship elections in Ekiti, Osun, Bayelsa and Kogi states. YPP Lashes Out At Buhari Also, the Young Progressive Party (YPP) said Nigerians had experienced several challenges in the last decade most of which could be attributed to leadership failure, which had been made worse by the ‘visionless APC government.’ Egbeola Martin, YPP spokesman, in a statement, said the APC regime had succeeded in bringing more hardships to Nigerians through several obnoxious anti-masses policies thereby catapulting Nigeria to the pinnacle of poverty ladder and making the nation the poverty capital of the world. Buhari Doesn’t Keep Promises – Afenifere Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, said Buhari had shown that he could not keep promises. Yinka Odumakin, the group’s spokesman, listed several pledges made by the Buhari government which it failed to keep, noting that the President had been running an exclusive regime despite promising Nigerians an inclusive administration. Odumakin stated: “He said he would not have the office of the First Lady, we have the First Lady’s office today. He promised to run an inclusive government. He has been running an exclusive government.  Those promises would mean nothing to us unless he does something differently, but his promises hold no water. “Based on his antecedents, there is nothing to hold on to. Buhari earlier said he would scrap fuel subsidy because it was fraudulent, but he has been paying subsidies for the past five years and he said he would sustain it till 2023, yet he said he is fighting corruption.” Civil Society Groups, Others Speak The Committee for Defence of Human Rights, former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr Obadiah Mailafia and elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, said they were not moved by the president’s speech. Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, a former CDHR president, said Buhari must match his promises with actions if he would dispel current hopelessness and anxiety in the land. He said: “It was an effort by the president to sustain the hope of the Nigerian people in spite of all the odds. But, I think what is far more important is matching those promises with actions in a way that dispels the kind of hopelessness, anxiety and disappointment ravaging the land.” However, Convener, Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, said it seemed Buhari and his speech writers were either incapable of feeling the pulse of Nigerians, or did not really care about the pains of the people. Atoye said: “The letter had no word of empathy for the nation and most especially, families of Nigerians who were gruesomely murdered by ISWAP and Boko Haram. They have yet missed another opportunity to lift the souls of Nigerians and connect with the people who are daily sinking into poverty.” Buhari Should Respect The Rule Of Law – NBA The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), in its reaction, urged Buhari to respect the rule of law as he promised in the speech. Kunle Edun, the NBA National Publicity Secretary, said Buhari should exhibit democratic leadership in the New Year. According to him, “There are many challenges confronting our nation. 2019 had a lot of hiccups and we hope that 2020 will be better. The government has to accept the fact that, without the rule of law, democracy cannot grow.” He lamented the alleged rise of corrupt practices within government establishments, while calling on the National Assembly to live up to its constitutional responsibilities by acting as a check on the executive. Buhari Cannot Change – Yakasai Outspoken Northern an elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, said he expected nothing positive from the regime of Buhari, saying the president had not been a promise keeper. According to Yakasai, he would not take promises made by Buhari in his letter to Nigerians seriously, stressing, “I don’t expect him to successfully fight corruption. Coup making is treasonable; it is the highest crime in the land.  They did it and they are getting away with it. “He (the President) is asking for patience. Only those who still believe that he can change will believe him. As for me, the case is hopeless.  I see nothing changing, not this year or the year after.”