OWERRI – Princess Gloria Akobundu, Chief Executive Officer,  New Partnership for African’s Development (NEPAD) on Sunday, convened a crucial All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholder’s 2020 maiden meeting in her private residence in Owerri, the Imo State Capital. The meeting, she said, was aimed at consolidating the party from the grassroots in the state in line with President Muhammadu  Buhari’s directives to all APC leaders to begin the process of re-building the party in their various localities. Akobundu urged members of the party (APC) leaders to shun rancour and join in rebuilding the party, stressing that the party’s future rests on the ability of the leaders to brace up to challenges and fight for a common goal without witch-hunting one another. The NEPAD  boss  who also relayed President Buhari’s New Year message to APC loyalists in the state, urged members to remain committed to the party and always support its programmes. She said that the president had shown good faith to the state  by appointing some indigenes of the state into key positions, adding that the only way to reciprocate was by supporting his administration. She said there is no faction of the party in the state, stressing that time had come for all leaders of the party to come together to proffer solution that would move the party forward. “Mr. President has directed APC leaders to galvanise support for the party from the grassroots and this meeting today is one of such meetings aimed at uniting the party and repositioning it to a greater height. “This meeting is also to act in accordance with the president’s directive and I am happy that we will come out to be more united and strengthen,” she said. She urged party chairmen in the 27 local governments councils in the state to brace up to the challenges and ensure that party loyalists are carried along in the activities of the party. She said, “President Buhari has done a lot to put the APC on track” and warned that those who criticise the party just to discredit the efforts of the President must desist from it. In his speech, the State Party Chairman, Chief Maicon Nlemigbo, said the meeting would help to galvanise more support and commitment from the grassroots. He expressed optimism that the Supreme Court would give the party favourable judgment, adding that the massive vote Imo electorate gave Sen. Hope Uzodinma in the last governorship election must be reclaimed. Chief Nlemigbo said there was no division in the party but acknowledged that there were minor misunderstandings among party members. He said, “Human existence is not devoid of misunderstanding but the most important thing is how it is handled. “We are handling whatever differences we had in the past and we must come out very strong to compete with other major political parties.” The immediate past Deputy Governor of the state, Eze Madumere, commended Akobundu for convening the meeting, describing it as very important in the survival of the party in Imo. Madumere debunked the claim that he had dumped the party for the PDP and urged party leaders to discountenance the rumour. “I have heard the rumour that I have left APC, but I want to confirm to all of you here that I am still a committed member of the party. “I will soon convene another mega meeting to galvanise support for our candidates who are involved in the forthcomings re-run election in Okigwe and Orlu Zone,” he said.