A nurse in Germany has been arrested on suspicion of poisoning five premature babies with morphine, police said Thursday, adding that the children had survived. The woman was taken into custody on Wednesday after investigators found a syringe containing breast milk and traces of morphine in her locker at Ulm university hospital in southern Germany, Ulm police chief Bernhard Weber told reporters. The five babies, who were between one day and one-month-old, were injected with morphine on December 20 in a shared room at the hospital. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The act offers amnesty to non-Muslim illegal immigrants from three neighbouring Muslim-majority countries, amending India’s 64-year-old citizenship law, which currently prohibits illegal migrants from becoming Indian citizens. It also speeds up the path to Indian citizenship for members of six religious communities – Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian – if they can prove they are from Pakistan, Afghanistan or Bangladesh. They will now only have to live or work in India for six years – instead of 11 years – before becoming eligible to apply for citizenship. Under the CAA people holding Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards could lose their right to live and work in India indefinitely if they break local laws, no matter how minor the offence. Several petitions argue that the law is illegal, claiming that it grants citizenship on the basis of religion – which goes against the country’s secular values enshrined in its constitution. Those challenging it include political parties, civil society and Muslim groups. Adding to the fears is a government pledge to carry out a widespread exercise to weed out “infiltrators” from neighbouring countries. Many Muslim citizens fear they could be made stateless, given that the exercise relies on extensive documentation to prove their ancestors lived in India. The government has defended the law, saying it will give sanctuary to people fleeing religious persecution and have vowed that it will not be rolled back.  