ABUJA – The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has cautioned the 11 Electricity Distribution Companies, otherwise known as DisCos against the ongoing practice of some electricity distribution companies forcing customers to invest in the replacement of distribution infrastructure. NERC said the unwholesome practice of forcing electricity consumers to invest in such transformers as, cables and others as a condition for the restoration of electricity supply, was unacceptable and must be met with stiff penalties by the regulators. Dr.  Usman Abba-Arabi, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NERC urged consumers to report any DisCo, found to engage in these unwholesome practices. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The attention of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has been drawn to the ongoing practice of some electricity distribution companies forcing customers to invest in the replacement of distribution infrastructure such as transformers, cables, as a condition for the restoration of electricity supply. “The commission had earlier issued a ‘Regulation for Investment in Electricity Networks’ whereby customers desirous of intervening in the restoration of the power supply may invest in the provision of materials and installation. “The regulation provides that such an arrangement must always be on the basis of an executed ‘Project Agreement’ between the customers and Distribution Company in which the costs and the mechanism for recovery of the investment are mutually agreed between the parties. “In this regard, customers are hereby requested to report any electricity distribution company that has engaged in the practice of forcing customers to supply materials and/or installation as a precondition for providing or restoring electricity supply.” He further stated that the commission had been informed to the current practice of some electricity distribution companies embarking on the removal of meters from customer premises purportedly on the regulator’s directive that all meters that have been in use for more than 10 years should be phased out. He debunked the claim of the electricity distribution companies, saying that NERC never issued such directive.