Dr. Austin Ovuakporaye Ukori, a veteran activist and former President, National Union of Nigerian Students (NUNS), now National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), is ex-President, Student Union Government (SUG), University of Benin. Ukori, a public affairs analyst and ex-Vice President, Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers (NISE), spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the South West security outfit, ‘Operation Amotekun’, the recent Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election, among other issues. Excerpt: Do you think that the ‘Operation Amotekun’ option by the South West governments is better for the regions to check insecurity? The option is very clear. First, these are reactions to the failure of the nation’s security architecture. The valid question is: Should we fold our arms and allow Fulani herdsmen kill us and destroy our properties and farms. We must protect ourselves. In a civilian democracy, community policing and state policing are encouraged. In the First Republic, we used to have Native Authority Police, Regional and Federal Police. All these point to the urgent need for restructuring. There should be a re-negotiation of the existence of Nigeria. Through restructuring, all these will be well activated. Amotekun is not illegal. Everybody has the right to self-defence. All the regions should emulate the South West by setting up their own security outfits to check the rising spate of insecurity in the country. I am happy that Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice and the South West governors have agreed on the issue. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network You just said that there is urgent need to restructure the country. Are you saying that the current structure of the country is beneficial to the citizens? Obviously not. The 1904 to 2014 sovereign agreement of merging Northern and Southern Protectorates to form Nigeria lapsed in 2014. Technically, we the people of Nigeria, that is the ethnic nationalities, should renegotiate the existence of Nigeria. If the country is not restructured now, there may be crises from multiple points and that will amount to total chaos for the country. There should be a conference of all the ethnic nationalities to renegotiate a new constitution, produced by “We the people of Nigeria”, which will be brought into existence by a plebiscite or referendum before Buhari steps out. The current National Assemble, Civil Society Organisations, Non-Governmental Organisations, the Nigerian Bar Association, working in consonance with the executive should join hands to make this happen, beginning from now till the end of Buhari’s tenure. We need peace in this country. A cross section of Nigerians has been speaking on the recent Supreme Court decision on Imo State governorship election. What is your take on it? The trend of Supreme Court shocking Nigerians with its decisions is unfortunate. The Supreme Court judgment is the highest court. After it, the next appeal is to God, where we cannot physically go. The decision on Imo governorship election confirms the fear of Nigerians that there is a supremacy battle between the Common Low and the Sharia Law, which has been highlighted by several groups. The appointment of the current Chief Justice of Nigeria and other Justices of the Supreme Court recently were seen as suspicious and the recent judgments beginning from the Atiku Abubakar versus President Buhari case confirmed such suspicion. Unfortunately, the National Judicial Council (NJC) is doing nothing about it. The three arms of government are co-equal. The National Assembly should do something about this ugly trend. I call on the current CJN to resign because the recent judgments are far from being credible, fair and just. For example, there have been suggestions that the current CJN is being allegedly pocketed by the executive. I suggest that the CJN should not come from the background of the Sharia Law, which is like the Canon Law and Customary Court Law, which should end at the Appeal Court level. The Common Law or Rule of Law is the kernel of civilian democracy. Any other thing is unacceptable because it will crash he system. The Supreme Court decision on Atiku/Buhari case and the recent Imo governorship election as well as the Osun governorship election are far from being credible, fair and just. Elections have become civilian equivalent of Military coup, starting from the 2019 general elections, Osun governorship election, Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections. Elections should not be matter for the military. The moment elections are not free and credible, democracy is threatened. About six months into his second term, what is your impression on President Muhammadu Buhari style of leadership? General Muhammadu Buhari’s style of governance since his first term in office has brought back the memories of his first coming in the 80s. He cannot change. His government is like a military dictatorship. The National Assembly has been pocketed. This current national legislature cannot act as a check on the Executive. Ditto the Judiciary. We now operate a militarilised civilian democracy we are just pretending to be a democracy. It is common to hear that people are thrown into detention anyhow. The rule of law is the kernel of democracy. When the rule of law is not regarded, we are moving towards anarchy. No country survives two civil wars. Nigeria should be careful that the people do not embark on a civil uprising. Buhari is a strong personality. Democracy needs strong institutions and strong individuals as portrayed by Gen Buhari. First, the government disobeys court orders as was exhibited in the case of Sambo Dasuki, El-ZakyZaky, Omoyele Sowore and many others. He has been Funalising most of his appointments, disregarding the Federal Character principle. He runs his government with cabals, which is alien to the constitution and is an impeachable offence. What is your take on the declaration of Nigeria as the poverty capital of the world? It is very sad and unfortunate development. Poverty is direct product of massive corruption going on at all levels, both in public and private sectors. Because the best brains are not positioned, round pegs are not in round holes. We have Fulanisation and Isalamisation. When these are projected, poverty will be on the increase. We must make efforts to enthrone merit and do away with mediocrity. We must make use of our best brains. For this country to be out of poverty, we need initiatives and ideas which will create jobs, turn around the economy, create wealth for everyone, from top to bottom. We saw in action the growth of the Asian countries like Japan, Korea, etc. What is your take on the continued border closure? Do you think it is achieving the aim of the government? My take is that we must examine critically the ECOWAS Free Trade Agreement and the African Union level of it. It is unfortunate that our neighbours have not been faithful to us. Many of their goods are destined for Nigeria. They arrive here and they earn all the money. Most of the products of the exporting countries are dumped in Nigeria. But, we cannot close our borders forever. We need to re-negotiate these treaties. Both parties should obey them. There is already an ECOWAS Court. We must have a way of enforcing and implementing these agreements. ECOWAS can work out this using the individual Armed Forces. Would you say the Federal Government’s new visa policy on Africans is proper? It is not proper. For President Muhammadu Buhari to make such a crucial policy statement abroad. It confirms his dictatorial trait. It is a contradiction of the policy on border closure we are talking about. How can Nigeria close its borders on one hand and on the other hand, he is beckoning all Africans to troop into the country? This will provide a cover for all manner of nomadic Fulani to have free entry into the country. The National Assembly should have been part of such a crucial decision considering the serious security implications to the country.