BOMADI – Not less than eight travelers have been killed along the Bomadi-Ohoror road in Delta State. The armed robbers killed three drivers of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), a conductor last Tuesday and four passengers Thursday. A victim, Mrs Ebi, a trader and who sustained a deep machete wound, narrated that the incident occurred around 5.30 am at the same dilapidated spot near Odorubu community in Patani council area. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She said, “We ran into the robbers at the bad spot near Odorubu. The robbers came out of the bush, all dressed like black Ninjas, stopped our motor with gun shots. They took all our money, phones and other valuables. They are all small boys. “One of them stabbed my hand and took away my money. They hurriedly ran into the bush around 6. am when they heard gun shots coming from Bomadi axis, who we identified as men of the JTF and police on rescue operation”. A driver, Mr Happy Funtoru, who also went on rescue, said “three vehicles ran into the robbers on the spot and we rescued victims to a nearby clinic at Odorubu community, with one of the drivers butchered.” However, the Bomadi division chairman of NURTW, Mr Stanley Ogbakiri, appealed to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to as a matter of urgency carry out repair work on the highly dilapidated road. “My passionate appeal is that many people have been maimed and killed on this road and the state government should please come and repair the road to curtail criminal activities,” he said. However, the victim who sustained fatal machete cuts and identified to be a driver of a sachet (pure) water-laden vehicle, was reported to have died at a hospital in Ughelli, on Saturday. “My passionate appeal is that many people have been maimed and killed on this road and the state government should please come and repair the road to curtail criminal activities,” he said. However, the victim who sustained fatal machete cuts and identified to be a driver of a sachet (pure) water-laden vehicle, was reported to have passed on at a hospital in Ughelli, according to a close source.