It came as the Queen went to a church near Sandringham in her first public appearance since it was announced the couple was giving up their HRH titles. In her statement yesterday she wished them “a happy and peaceful new life”. But Thomas Markle, Meghan’s father, accused them of “cheapening” the Royal Family. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Speaking at a summit in Berlin, Mr. Johnson said he had been confident the Royal Family would find a way forward for Prince Harry and Meghan, adding: “I think the whole country will want to join in wishing them the very best for the future.” The Queen was met by about 100 well-wishers outside St Mary the Virgin Church in Hillington, Norfolk, where she arrived with the Duke of York. Announcing the decision over the duke and duchess in a statement on Saturday, she said she was “particularly proud” of how quickly Meghan became one of the family and said she, Harry and Archie would always be “much loved”. The new arrangements, which will begin in the spring, mean the couple will no longer use their HRH titles and will not formally represent the Queen. HRH, an abbreviation of His/Her Royal Highness, is used as part of the title of some members of the Royal Family. The duke and duchess will receive no public funds for royal duties and intend to repay £2.4m of taxpayer money used for the refurbishment of Frogmore Cottage. The house in Windsor, for which they will pay rent, will remain their family home as they divide their time between the UK and Canada. Prince Harry and Meghan said they wanted to “step back” from their role as senior royals after both speaking about the media scrutiny. The duchess is suing the Mail on Sunday for publishing what she says was a private letter to her father, raising the prospect of him testifying against her in court. In comments for a forthcoming Channel 5 documentary, Thomas Markle said the Royal Family is “one of the greatest long-living institutions ever” and accused the couple of “destroying it, they are cheapening it, making it shabby”. “Every young girl wants to become a princess and she got that and now she’s tossing that away,” he said. “It looks like she’s tossing that away for money.” The announcement about the couple’s future comes after they held talks with the Queen on Monday. The Queen said following “many months of conversations and more recent discussions” she was “pleased that together we have found a constructive and supportive way forward for my grandson and his family”. In its statement, Buckingham Palace said: “The Sussexes will not use their HRH titles as they are no longer working members of the Royal Family.” BBC royal correspondent Daniela Relph told BBC Radio 5 Live: “When they first issued that statement about what they wanted, (on 8 January) they talked about forging this progressive role within the Royal Family, about stepping back from royal duties. This isn’t stepping back, it’s stepping away entirely.” She said the question that will “hangover them” for the next year is what their commercial life will look like. Buckingham Palace said the duke and duchess understood they were required to withdraw from royal duties, including official military appointments. “While they can no longer formally represent the Queen, the Sussexes have made clear that everything they do will continue to uphold the values of Her Majesty,” it said. The statement added that the pair would continue to maintain their private patronages and associations.