LAGOS – In other to carve a niche for himself as a departure from the past, Nigeria’s Sports Minister, Sunday Dare has placed infrastructure at the top of his agenda for sports development in the country on resumption of office. And on Monday, December 16, 2019, the Minister officially presented his ministry’s ‘Adopt-A-talent’ project to critical stakeholders in the business and sports in Lagos. The presentation held at the Civic Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos was well attended with who-is-who in the sports fraternity. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Apart from the launch of the Adopt-A -Talent programme, the ministry also presented another critical programme aimed at improving sports in the country, the Works Experience Programme (WEP). “Adoption Initiative has been birthed, and the policy to turn sports into business is being pursued among other things,’’ he said. Dare further assured of the Federal Government’s commitment towards increasing the level of investment in the youth with a slew of new youth engagements unfolding. He said that the previous youth engagements were being strengthened and consolidated through partnership with other Ministries, Departments and Agencies. According to the Minister his plans for the next two years would focus on infrastructure, athletes Welfare, grassroots, and revenue generation. “Our short term Sports Development Plan for the next two years gradually unfolds. It is focused on Infrastructure, Athletes Welfare, Grassroots Sports and Sports as a viable business.” he stated via Twitter. “Abuja Stadium is on its way back, National Stadium Lagos is set for concession, Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna will soon undergo renovation. “Talks are ongoing concerning the renovation of the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium, formerly, Liberty Stadium in Ibadan with government and a few private individuals,” he said. There is no doubt that his sight is set on developing new stadiums across the 36 States of the federation in 2020. “Our goal is to deliver four FIFA standard pitches by the first quarter of 2020 by God’s Grace,” he stated, adding, “The ministry will in 2020 monitor and ensure the completion of about 20 mini-stadiums across the country.” According to him, the model of one mini-Stadium per Local government adopted by Imo State will be marketed to each state. The Minister said his ministry is on course to reposition the state of sports in the country but claimed that the finish line was far ahead. “Earnest work is ongoing to rejuvenate Sports development in all ramifications in Nigeria. It’s not a dash but a long distance race and we have started. “We do not crave early applauds, rather we want to use this given opportunity to change the fundamentals of sports development,” he said. As far as stakeholders are not doubting the capabilities of the Minister in repositioning sports in the country, the question is how feasible is the actualization of the ‘Adopt-A-Talent Initiative’? while others have praised the project. First, the economic problem in the country should be tackled to the fullest for the programme to be successful because without finance the programme might not see the light of the day. Secondly, the ministry must create conducive environments for everyone to be able to key into it and participate; also the talents must be identified as the beneficiary of the programme. Another factor that would make the programme to be feasible is to make the public show interest in taking part in sports in the country. Since sports, especially, football is the only unifying factor in the country that knows no tribe, religion, class or grade, the ministry should ensure people show interest in sports in the country and also participates fully. Acting president of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Olamide George, praised the Minister for his foresight in coming up with the programme. “The Minister deserves all the accolades Nigerians have been pouring on him since the programme was launched in Lagos. “There have been talks about private sector involvement in sports development for decades now but no Sports Minister has made any concrete move towards actualizing it in a practical manner until now,” said George. The AFN acting president said he and his board members would take a cue from the Sports Minister’s brilliant initiative and adopt the programme as one of the ways of funding the training of its athletes for future competitions. “No one has achieved success without the support of others. By adopting athletes, you are providing them with the means to compete for Nigeria. “It allows them to afford travel expenses for training camps and competitions, proper nutrition, better equipment and coaching. “These athletes will be competing for Nigeria and those who will embrace the programme are those who will be making sure they qualify to compete for Nigeria. “By supporting the programme, we are able to provide our athletes with the opportunity to reach their full potential and be right there with them every time they wear the green and white colours of Nigeria,” George said. He revealed that the Minister indirectly launched the programme in September by getting a Nigerian to adopt 800m runner, Edosie Ibadin for the 2019 World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar. In his view, former Team Manager of defunct Julius Berger Football Club of Lagos, Engr. Mactony Taiwo appealed to corporate organisations to embrace the programme as it is not peculiar to Nigeria. “This is what is obtainable in some developed sporting countries all over the world and it is not peculiar to Nigeria. “Corporate bodies and privately owned but inclined sports organization should also support the programme for the development of our sports. This is the only way by which the programme can be successful and beneficial to our athletes and officials,” Taiwo said while thanking the minister for coming up with such programme. Former sprinter and now an athletic coach, Olu Sule said that all hands should be on deck for the successful implementation of the programme otherwise it will be another time wasting exercise. “My only concern is the implementation. For the programme to be feasible and successful, all hands must be on deck. “It must not be seen as only the Minister or the Ministry’s project, but the programme of all and sundry. “We all must join hands with the Ministry for its implementation. In as much as we must praise the Minister for coming up with such a programme, we must not allow it to fail but ensuring that we all play our part as expected of us,” he said. Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Lagos State Governor on Sports, Anthony Adeboye counseled the Minister to set up committees in each of the states for the actualization of the prorgramme. “My suggestion on how feasible the programme can be is for the Minister through the Ministry to set up committees in each of the 36 states for its implementation. “The committees members’ would be in charge of the actualization and report back to the central body, which the Ministry, on what they have been able to do and achieve. “By so doing, all would be involved and different ideas would be put together with the positive ones taking into use. “The ministry and the Minister cannot do it alone; we all must be involved and join hands with them; we should all see it as our project and for the development of sports in the country,” said Adeboye. 