ABUJA – From all indications, it has been difficult for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to play the role of opposition since it lost power at the centre in 2015, same is the All Progressives Congress (APC) to play the role of the ruling party. For both, it has been a learning process. While the needed bite as an opposition has not been deeply felt in the four years of PDP as an opposition, the APC on its part, has, for that four years as a ruling party succeeded in promoting PDP, acting as if it is still in the opposition. However, in the 16 years of PDP, the party succeeded in building an image that is still entrenched in the minds of many. Even though the party is no longer in power, the image is still difficult to be erased and still a threat to the ruling APC. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While some see the image of PDP as negative, others see it as positive, symbolising peace, growth and development. But, in all, the party has succeeded in building an image in the mind of the nation. This may had prompted the former National Chairman of the party, Vincent Ogbulafor to declared some times ago that PDP will rule the country for 60 years. He had said: “Some time ago, I used to read in the newspapers that the umbrella of the PDP is torn. Each time I read that, I would laugh and then say to myself that the umbrella is still strong and very intact and ready to accommodate more people. “The PDP is a party for all and it is set to rule Nigeria for the next 60 years. I don’t care if Nigeria becomes a one-party state. We can do it and the PDP can contain all.” In his submission, while addressing a delegation of former Speakers of House of Assemblies in his Abuja in 2017, former President Goodluck Jonathan said that PDP is still the strongest that the country has to offer. He noted that the party is the strongest despite losing the 2015 presidential elections to the ruling APC, adding that PDP performed well during its 16-year rule, and helped the country with a “number of reforms it introduced and implemented.” Jonathan had said: “PDP is still the strongest party. We know the reason why we lost the elections. “At the appropriate time, some of these things would be properly addressed because of history. There are certain things you don’t write now because it would be misunderstood as if you are playing politics.” Analysing Jonathan’s submission from the perspective of the image of the party, some political analysts have said that PDP is still a nightmare and a thorn in the flesh of the ruling APC. The analysts were of the opinion that if not for the federal might, the 2019 election would have been a disaster for the APC. No wonder the leadership of PDP had cried out before and after the general election, insisting that the election was a war. But, even with the intimidation and harassment, PDP still had its way in the election, penetrating the stronghold of APC to win more states. A closer look at the success of PDP, revealed that the party succeeded because of the failure of APC to keep to its electoral promises, which may had led to why the nation is still sympathetic to the opposition PDP. To buttress the submission that federal might was used to rob PDP in the past election, the European Union observer mission report had said the 2019 general elections won by President Buhari and his APC weren’t transparent and were marred by violence and harassment of voters. “The elections became increasingly marred by violence and intimidation, with the role of the security agencies becoming more contentious as the process progressed,” the EU observers had said in their final report on the Feb. 23 and March 2 votes, adding that “this damaged the integrity of the electoral process and may deter future participation.” At least 58 people, including election officials, were killed in voting-related violence, according to the Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room, a coalition of civic groups that monitored the vote. The International Republican Institute and the National Democratic Institute joint observer mission in a separate statement had also said a heavy military presence undermined the integrity of the vote in some parts of Africa’s most populous nation. Taking its cue from the reports of the foreign observers, the PDP said the revelation of electoral manipulations in the European Union report had further vindicated the party and millions of Nigerians, that the February 23 Presidential election was rigged to favour President Buhari and the APC. The party in a statement signed by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, had noted that the revelations of manipulations as detailed in the EU report further “validates queries by majority of Nigerians that President Buhari was not validly returned for a second term in office.” According to statement, “the world can now see that the PDP has not been crying wolf in insisting that the election was outrightly rigged with the cancellation of millions of PDP votes, alteration of results and allocation of fictitious votes to the APC. “Nigerians are still in shock over the revelations by EU of how about 2.8 million votes were deliberately ‘cancelled without sufficient accountability’ and how several returning officers gave no reason for the cancellations. “More shocking is the iniquity committed at the national collation centre, headed by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC chairman, where the EU report exposed inconsistent numbers, distortions and “a large discrepancy of ‘1.66 million more registered voters, as announced by INEC on 14 January, compared to those announced by state returning officers during the collation of presidential results.’ “Nigerians witnessed, on national television, how professors and returning officers were unable to reconcile result figures due to heavy manipulations upon which INEC declared the APC winner.” The statement added that the EU report has further exposed “the iniquity committed by the Professor Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC by listing how ballot boxes were compromised, how essential materials were missing, how ‘voter register was not always ticked as required,’ and how ‘manual authentication procedures were not correctly followed.’ “The report also bared how figures on result forms did not reconcile, how result forms were not publicly posted, how ‘result forms and smart card readers were not packed in tamper-evident envelops as required,’ in addition to how the APC administration used security forces to intimidate voters, aid violence against our members and muscled votes for the APC.” The APC may have succeeded at the centre, but has it succeeded in winning the minds of many Nigerians? This is the question begging for an answer. The answer to this is not far fetched because instead of facing governance squarely, the APC resorted to blame game, blaming the PDP for all its failures to meet the electoral needs of the people. This development, according to political watchers, made the memory of PDP to linger in the minds of the people at the detriment of the ruling APC, that is trying every means to obliterate the PDP from the country.