WARRI  – Controversies have emerged over the release of abducted two Russians and one Indian by the sea pirates in Warri, Delta State. In the incident, it was gathered that out of six naval ratings deployed on-board the vessel, MV AMBIKA namely PO Nnamdi, AB Mohammed, SM Hassan and JC Okafor, were killed In Action (KIA) while two others survived bullet wound. The three Sterling Oil expatriates abducted by gunmen on-board MV AMBIKA off Ramos River, Agge Community in Bayelsa State, to include an Indian, Mr Varonray Anandan, 29, and two Russians, Mr Roman Dmitriev, 34 and Mr Mikhail Finenko, 31. While a school of thought said there was a direct negotiation deal with the navy for the release of the foreigners before one was cut down and the victims rescued, another school of thought claimed a professional ransom negotiator was at the background throughout the rescue operation. It was learnt that a deal of undisclosed amount was struck with the kidnappers unknowing to them that the navy also have a plan ‘B’ to cite them down immediately they secure the safety of the expatriates. Dependable sources revealed that the professional ransom negotiator was just playing along with the captors since January 2 when the incident occurred from where they were able to trace the captors to Ondo via a tracking device. “There is always a negotiations process when expatriates are abducted and these kinds of negotiation are discreetly handled by experts not because we cannot launch a full-fledged rescue operation but to first secure the safety of the foreigners. “Once their safety is secured, we strike by rescuing the victims and engaging the kidnappers to let them know that kidnapping is a crime so they have to face the bullet,” the source revealed. However, addressing newsmen on Thursday in Warri about the rescue operation, Rear Adm Saidu Garba, the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), Central Naval Command, said that the victims were rescued on January 7 by a combined team of the Nigerian Navy: Central Naval Command and the land and air components of the “Operation Delta Safe”. Garba, who was flanked by Rear Adm. Ibrahim Dewu, Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) DELTA and other top military personnel, said the victims were kidnapped on January 2. “On January 2, some suspected sea robbers attacked a Sterling Global Oil vessel, MV AMBIKA about 3.2 Nautical Mile off Ramos River entrance. “A gun battle ensued leading to the death of four naval ratings and some of the assailants while other members of the gang escaped with bullet wounds. “During the incident, the assailants abducted three crew members of the MV AMBIKA comprising one Indian and two Russians and moved them to undisclosed location in the creek,” he said. He said that the Central Naval Command in conjunction with the land and air components of the Operation Delta Safe immediately embarked on a manhunt for the perpetrators. “Following intelligence report on the activities of the group to relocate the victims to Ondo State, the military units across the Niger Delta were placed on red alert. “At about 22:30 on January 7, intelligence report reveals that the victims had been moved to Awoye in Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State. “Accordingly, the personnel of the Forward Operating Base, Igbokoda were alerted of the development and lay siege to the criminals and rescued the expatriates,” he said. According to report, the FOC said that one of the criminals was apprehended with his weapon and the boat that was used to convey the victims. He said that other members of the group fled into the nearby creek with bullet injuries, adding that they were presently being hunted with the support of the community youths. “The rescued victims have been given medical attention by a team of doctors from the Nigerian Navy Hospital, Warri,” he said. Garba warned criminals to desist from illegalities, saying that the Nigerian Navy was poised to rid the maritime domain of illegal activities. “The Navy will not relent until the perpetrators of the dastard act are brought to book,” he said