Ilorin – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Stakeholders Forum in Ilorin West Local Government Area of Kwara State have appealed to the state Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, not to allow peace in the state be endangered. A recent decision of the state government to revoke three plots of land reportedly allocated under a previous administration in the state to the late father of Saraki, Olusola Saraki, had engendered a face-off between the former senate president and the governor. However, the forum while addressing newsmen in Ilorin on Tuesday urged the two leaders to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign in the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Chairman of the forum, Abdulkadir Oba Ajara, who alongside chairman of the PDP in the Ilorin West Local Government Baba Akota, addressed the newsmen, cautioned that if crisis is ignited from the local government  which is where the two political leaders hail from, it may spread to other parts of the state. Ajara  while noting that Saraki had showed his preparedness to allow peace reign in the state by not only accepting the results of the last general elections in the state, but wishing the winners well urged the governor to toe the path of peace. The forum leader appealed to men of the state police command to be neutral in the current political crisis rocking the state, urging them to face their primary duty of maintaining security of lives and property. Ajara also urged supporters of both the PDP and Saraki to remain calm and law abiding at all times. He stated: “Our appeal is to the two combatants who are from Ilorin West LGA to sheath their swords. Ilorin West is a prime LG in the state, if it goes haywire it will reverberate in all the remaining 15 local government areas of the state. “I urge our people not to allow self-centered people to turn our state to centre of violence. We all know what happened in Kogi. We should maintain decorum. We should not see ourselves as causing trouble. We know how they came in and that’s why they are chasing shadow in the name of governance. “They promised heaven on earth, but we’ve seen all they are capable of doing since they came in. Dr Bukola Saraki accepted results of the last general elections despite cases of over voting all over. People who made mistakes of putting them there are regretting now. “We don’t want Ilorin West to be set Kwara ablaze. So we call on governor abdulRazaq to take charge to ensure peaceful co-existence and harmonious relationship in all parts of the state.