TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI; AKINWUNMI KING LAGOS – At the launch of the South-West security outfit, codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’ in Ibadan last Thursday, Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi was clear when he said, “The Western Nigeria Security Network Operation Amotekun is nothing but a community policing response to a problem that our people would like to put an end to. “But pending the time that the community policing strategy being put together by the Nigeria Police comes to fruition, it is clearly important that we give our people a confidence boosting strategy. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We are not creating a regional police force neither are we oblivious of steps to take in order to have state police. Yes, some of us are apologetic advocates of state police, but we are also law-abiding citizens of Nigeria. We know the process and procedure to undergo to get to that point.” The same was the viewpoint of his colleague in Ondo state, Rotimi Akeredolu who said barbarism displayed by criminal elements in the region gave the governors grave concern which necessitated the security platform. “It has become embarrassing that insecurities are happening in the south-west state. Amotekun will save us from ritual killing, cybercrime, kidnapping among others. We shall not relent until the entire place is secured. “We the South-West governors believe in the unity of Nigeria and we can’t afford to break this country. I married an Igbo woman and we believe in Nigeria. We are committed in the idea to make Nigeria great and united,” he said. Malami Stirs Controversy However, Nigerians, even those who are not from South Western region, were taken by surprise, when the Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami released a press statement in which he described the Operation Amotekun formation as illegal. Malami, had in the statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Dr. Umar Gwandu, said the issues of defence and security are under the exclusive list and not with the states. According to the statement, “The setting up of the paramilitary organisation called ‘Amotekun’ is illegal and runs contrary to the provisions of the Nigerian law. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) has established the Army, Navy and Air Force, including the Police and other numerous paramilitary organisations for the purpose of the defence of Nigeria. “As a consequence of this, no state government, whether singly or in a group has the legal right and competence to establish any form of organisation or agency for the defence of Nigeria or any of its constituent parts. “This is sanctioned by the provision of Item 45 of the Second Schedule of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) authorizing the Police and other federal security services established by law to maintain law and order. “The law will take its natural course in relation to excesses associated with organisation, administration and participation in Amotekun or continuous association with it as an association. “Finally, it is important to put on record that the Office of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice was not consulted on the matter. If it had, proper information and guidance would have been offered to ensure that Nigeria’s defence and corporate entity are preserved at all times.” A lot of Nigerians had been suspicious since the day the security outfit was launched, as three of the governors, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun and Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, were all conspicuously absent at the venue of the inauguration in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. These three governors along with their counterparts from Ekiti, Ondo and Oyo, Fayemi, Rotimi Akeredolu and Rotimi Makinde respectively, were all involved right from the conception stage when the idea was conceived. Though, there have been speculations that the absentee governors at the launch deliberately boycotted the event after getting the hint that the federal government was going frustrate the initiative. Many political observers have also accused Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of frustrating the operation Amotekun idea just because of the 2023 presidential ambition. They argued that since the northerners seem to be against the initiative, Tinubu, who is doing everything to woo the region, is not ready to support anything they see as bad. However, condemnations and knocks have continued to trail the statement released by Malami on behalf of the federal government. Many of those who have reacted to Malami’s declaration believe that the federal government has no right to pronounce the security outfit illegal. Afenifere, Sagay, Soyinka Kick Afe Babalola, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), in a statement issued on Wednesday, criticised the federal government’s pronouncement, saying Amotekun “is absolutely constitutional and legal.” According to Babalola, “The issue of Amotekun is an issue of public safety and protection of property. There is no law in Nigeria, which prevents citizens from being able to secure their life and property. The Nigeria Police does not enjoy exclusive jurisdiction when it comes to the protection of life and property. As a matter of fact, in many parts of Nigeria, various outfits such as Civilian JTF, Hisbah Police and vigilantes have been performing the duty of protecting life and property. “Given the provisions of the Criminal Code in Sections 272-275, the right of citizens to arrest any person for committing an offence is legal and may be exercised individually or communally. In any event, the regional community security outfit known as Amotekun cannot be set aside by oral pronouncement by the Attorney General or any other body. Only the court of law can declare the establishment illegal.” On its part, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, described the federal government’s position as a joke taken too far, just as it called on the South-West governors to ignore Malami. The organisation while speaking through its Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, challenged the Federal Government to go to court. According to Odumakin, “They are joking. Now they have exposed themselves that they are the ones supporting insecurity in the South-West because if they don’t support insecurity in the South West, they will not take this position. All that they are telling us is that they will leave us vulnerable. They have not declared Miyetti Allah illegal or the herdsmen carrying AK- 47 around the country. “It is the security put together by our governors that they are now declaring illegal. On what basis are they declaring it illegal? They are carrying it too far. “The first question Afenifere wants to ask Malami is this: Is Malami a court of law to declare action taken by federating units illegal? What power is he exercising? We are calling on our governors to ignore him totally. If he has anything against what they have done, let him go to court and they meet him in court.” Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka also condemned the federal government’s stance, insisting that any serious government who cares for its citizens would not object to such initiative. He said: “The initiative is quite legal and constitutional and in any case, the federal government should go to court. I have always believed passionately in self-policing. If it is possible to eliminate any kind of formal policing, I will be forward. But there is a need for an organised security. “To say that the people do not have a right to defend their lives, secure a livelihood and flush out the evil elements and pick up the slack that existing securities are unable to fulfil is an enemy action and inhumane.” “Some people who have been sleeping all this while, taking belated actions, who watched all the security threats that citizens suffer saying the initiative is illegal and unconstitutional is unacceptable. They should go back to sleep. Amotekun has come to stay.” A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, in his reaction via his twitter handle, wondered why the Hisbah Police in the North-West and Civilian Joint Task Force in the North-East can be seen as legal but Amotekun, which is to protect indigenes of the South- West is illegal. “Hisbah Police in North-West is okay, Civilian Joint Task Force in North-East is okay. Meanwhile, IPOB in South-East are terrorists and Amotekun in South-West is illegal! “One day, Nigerians will get tired of this bullshit, get sense and free themselves from this insufferable bondage. “If you say that we cannot defend ourselves and our people from tribal and religious bigots, ethnic cleansers, genocidal maniacs, barbarous savages, bloodthirsty jihadists, blood-lusting terrorists, racial supremacists, and cold-blooded mass murderers simply because we are Southerners, then to hell with your Nigerian unity,” the tweets read. The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF), observed that the declaration by the federal government, further demonstrated state-backed injustice in the polity. The group said it considered Malami’s action as an abuse of office to suppress the rights of federating units to secure themselves and in furtherance of the widely held suspicion that sections of the country are deliberately being rendered vulnerable for herdsmen and other criminals by the federal government. While some of the governors behind the initiative have not come out to make their positions known about the federal government’s declaration, Akeredolu has insisted that the ‘Operation Amotekun’ has come to stay. The Ondo State governor, who is the chairman, South West Governors Forum, said there is no going back on the operation of the regional security, Amotekun, adding that governors in the south-west region are prepared to “pursue operation Amotekun to a logical conclusion.” On his part, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) asked Southwest governors to ignore Malami’s directive on the legality or otherwise of Operation Amotekun. Speaking with Daily Independent, Sagay said the governors have no business consulting Malami before coming up with the idea of how best to secure their states or region. “ The governors have no duty to consult him (Malami). He is Attorney- General of the Federation, not Attorney-General of South-West states. The state governors have their own Attorney-Generals who are equally as qualified as Malami is”. “So, if this is part of the conspiracy that anything that smacks of regional arrangements or organisation offends some people who believe there has to be direct federal rule in every nook and cranny of the country, that is own misery. But it has nothing to do with the law. As far as i am concerned, he is just expressing his personal prejudice, it has nothing to with the law. The Amotekun people are not paramilitary organisation. They are to apprehend those committing crimes and report to the police or they themselves can exercise their rights of citizens arrest which we all can do as individuals. I can arrest somebody who I suspect has commited a crime”. “So, the AGF is just speaking out of pure prejudice and it is very sad that people of Northern extraction are never happy when we want to organise ourselves on regional basis. I don’t understand that. if you don’t want to organise yourselves, how can you stop others from doing it? So, it is pure prejudice and it has nothing to do with the law. the governors have no duty whatsoever to consult him and he shouldn’t aggrandize himself and arrogate to himself powers that he doesn’t have. I think the governors should just ignore him and carry on with what they are doing. If he feels aggrieved that people in some parts off the country are trying to secure themselves against crime, he can go to court to challenge it. That arrogant authority that he can dictate to states is very insulting” Sagay said. Also speaking on whether there is any difference between Sharia Police in the North popularly called Hisbah and Amotekun, Sagay said “In a sense, they have the same legal status; in the sense that each one is a creation of the state and not of the federal government. It is a very good point to raise and others have also raised the issue of the Civilian JTF in the North East. Those people are organised to identify Boko Haram terrorists and alert the military. When necessary, they defend themselves against the terrorists. Nobody is complaining because it is for a good purpose. Let me make a general statement here. In law, if something is not expressly prohibited, then that thing can be done legitimately”. “ There is no law, either in the Police or any other act, is there a prohibition of one state or many states coming together to organise the promotion of the security of the peoples of the state. The primary duty of the state is the protection of the security of the people. It is in the section 14 (2) of the constitution. That is their primary duty and this falls not only on the federal government but on all states. If you look at the constitution, the powers are equal in that sense”. “ The federal covers the whole country and the states cover their territorial areas. They can make laws for good governance which is also provided for in the constitution. What I am saying is that the concept of Amotekun is not banned and if it is not prohibited, it can be legitimately embarked upon”.