LAGOS – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seems not ready to challenge the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), come 2023. Even though it is believed that 2023 is still a bit far and that preparations towards the next general elections should not be up for discussion yet, political watchers expect that any serious major opposition should have by now begun to strategise in order to win the hearts of the electorates. Presently, there are so many crises rocking the PDP, both at the states and national levels, ranging from supremacy battle between Nyesom Wike, the Rivers State governor, and his counterpart in Bayelsa, Seriake Dickson. The fight between the two PDP governors has been linked to the political scheme that culminated in the emergence of the APC as the winner of the November 16, 2019, governorship election held in Bayelsa State. After the election, Wike alleged that Dickson sold the PDP to the APC in Bayelsa State. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, “Governor Seriake Dickson betrayed and sold out the party. In fact, Governor Dickson ought to have resigned from the party by now, so that the leaders of the PDP in Bayelsa would rebuild the party. The national leadership of the party should know that the only option left for the PDP to be strong in Bayelsa is for Dickson to leave the party. “I can show proof that Dickson has already made up his mind to go over to the APC. I am not going to sit down with anybody to discuss anything as it relates to Governor Dickson. I have no business with Governor Dickson.” Besides, Dickson has had a running battle with Wike over the emergence of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the presidential candidate of the PDP. The Rivers State governor had backed Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State for the presidential ticket, while Dickson was the rallying point for PDP governors in picking Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Another crisis bedeviling the PDP is the issue with the party Chairman, Uche Secondus. Some prospective aspirants under the party’s platform appear to have passed a subtle vote of no confidence on the party Chairman, who they accused of making clandestine moves to reserve the party’s 2023 presidential ticket for Atiku. Some sources within the party have accused Secondus of stepping on many toes and that the big hammer may fall on him. They revealed that some aspirants have voiced their displeasure with the way Atiku has monopolised the party, just as they maintained that Secondus has literally relocated to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the residence of the party’s presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections. They wondered why the National Chairman would abandon the Wadata Plaza office to direct the party’s affairs from Dubai when the party is in urgent need of re-organisation and redirection to tackle its numerous challenges, including the fallout of the both Kogi and Bayelsa states primaries which threatened the chances of the party at the November 16th governorship polls. It was alleged that Secondus has stepped on many big toes, including that of those who staked everything to ensure his emergence as the National Chairman. A source recalled how Wike contributed hugely to singlehandedly bankrolled Secondus to the National Chairmanship position only for him (Secondus) to align with alleged enemies of the party in ensuring that Wike’s candidate, Kingsley Chinda, does not emerge as the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives. The source further decried the poor management of the crises that followed the emergence of Ndudi Elumelu as the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives against the wishes of the party. He added that Wike, who is protecting the National Chairman, has finally left him making him susceptible to attacks from the prospective aspirants. The major sin of the National Chairman, according to the source, is his alleged plot to deny the potential aspirants of a level playing and reserve the PDP’s Presidential ticket for Atiku. In some states, especially in the South West, the party has continued to battle for survival and relevance. For instance, the Lagos State chapter of the PDP was recently engrossed in an in-fighting over the election of new executive members of the party. Despite losing many prominent members and chieftains after the 2019 elections, the Lagos PDP’s moves to reorganise itself and come out stronger have not been fruitful due to the leadership crisis rocking the party. The party’s performance at the 2019 election in the state was described as the worst in recent polls as it failed to secure any seat in the 40-member House of Assembly beside the party losing the governorship election to the ruling APC. The loss was attributed to the lack of unity among key chieftains of the party coupled with distrust and mutual suspicion, which ultimately precipitated the crushing defeat in the 2019 elections. Though, some chieftains of the party are expressing confidence that the PDP will reclaim power come 2023, a former Deputy National Chairman (South West) of the party, Chief Bode George in a recent interview stated that there was the need for the current managers of PDP to call an emergency meeting, just as he insisted that there was the need to do a thorough X-ray of where the party is. “We need to discuss how we can strengthen this party, because PDP was formed by unique personalities, PDP was formed by political icons of this country including late Chief Solomon Lar, Mallam Adamu Ciroma, Alhaji Abubakar Rimi, Sir Alex Ekwueme, Chief Bola Ige and a host of eminent others. We can disagree without being disagreeable. But we don’t have to be abusive and bring tribal sentiments into politics, such things don’t help. Giving conditions that if this tribe or that tribe wants to be president, this is what they should do, that should not be the language we should be using. I have friends all over the country, and my best friend is a Fulani. He is a Muslim, and I’m a Christian but we bond together very well. We should promote things that will unite us,” he said. Also, in Gombe State, some PDP chieftains said the party will continue to grow stronger and reclaim power in 2023. Rising from a one-day stakeholders’ meeting held at the party’s secretariat in Gombe, the PDP bigwigs said despite the persecution and discrimination coming from the ruling APC, the party is still on course to return to power in the state. The meeting convened by a former member of the House of Representatives, Hajiya Fatima Binta Bello, was attended by former political and public office holders in the state and at national level when the PDP held sway in the state. It was also attended by cabinet members of former Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo administration and other top members of the party in the North East zone. Addressing a crowd of party elders, supporters and executives, Fatima Bello said the APC-led administration was afraid of her party’s popularity because the PDP laid the foundation for the development of the state for the past 16 years. She said the idea behind calling the members together was for them to understand and encourage one another and show the world that the PDP is still stronger in the state. “Our great party is fully grounded in all nooks and crannies of Gombe State. We don’t know any other party than the PDP and we are going to make meaningful opposition because we taught those in government politics,” she said. The state PDP chairman, Joel Jagafa, thanked the members for sticking with the party despite losing the 2019 elections to the APC. Jagafa said the PDP remained the backbone of development in the state because it has a lot of things to showcase in the areas of infrastructure and human capital development in the last 16 years the party was in power. Also, the former Deputy Governor of the state, Charles Iliya, urged members to remain united, expressing optimism that the PDP will bounce back to power in 2023. He urged members to make meaningful contributions to the party beyond using it as a platform to run for elections only. The party has vowed to do everything possible to win the 2023 presidential election. This is even as the party said it will go the distance to ensure that events which culminated in its loss in 2019 are not allowed to happen again. The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Diran Odeyemi, said recently that the party is determined to bounce back, insisting that the PDP did not lose in 2019. According to him, “Nigerians are aware of the shame that played out in the 2019 elections. We did not lose but I don’t want to dwell in the past because the apex court in the land has adjudicated on the matter. For now, we will keep our strategy close to our chest but permit me to say this: Zoning, for now, is not giving the PDP headache. Whichever zone we agree on, I can assure Nigerians that we will come up with the best candidate that will put an end to the eight years misrule of the APC. “Regardless of the zone, Nigerians should expect from PDP in 2023 the best material, in terms of capacity, knowledge, preparedness, exposure, experience and courage; a man who will quickly make a difference in the life of Nigerians.” Odeyemi said Nigerians would realise in 2023 that “the APC came to learn the rudiments of governance but ended up as poor students of politics and constitutional democracy.” These, he added, “would make them go all out for a party that has done it before and is ready to do it again. He continued: “In the next three years, Nigerians will file out again to partake in a referendum on constitutionalism, hunger, rule of law and democracy. We are praying that in the next three years, they will repent of their wickedness and crass incompetence for the country to survive. “Today, the so-called integrity is nowhere to be found. They are presiding over corruption and Nigerians are dying of hunger by the day. This party cannot simply continue because by 2023, Nigerians know the step to take to rectify all the wrongs since APC’s assumption of office in 2015.” On Friday, media reports quoted Walid Jibrin, chairman of the PDP board of trustees, as alleging threats to his life because he declined to support an automatic ticket for Atiku in 2023. Jibrin said: “They said I should say Atiku is the man that I want because I am a leader. They should not also forget that the party has a constitution and guidelines which say there must be primary for whoever wants to contest.” However, Atiku has urged members of the PDP to concentrate on strengthening the main opposition platform before the 2023 election cycle. In a tweet recently, he wrote: “Our preoccupation at this point in the @OfficialPDPNig should not focus on elections, but on rebuilding and strengthening our party for the challenges ahead of us.” He said rather than playing politics when campaign season was still at least 30 months away, resources should be channelled towards bolstering the PDP structure, which has weakened consistently since it lost the centre after 16 years in 2015. Also, Doyin Okupe, former Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs to ex-President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, on Wednesday called on the party to consider rebranding and changing the party’s name in order to reclaim power from the APC. Okupe, in a post on his Facebook page, noted that to most Nigerians today, there is no significant difference between PDP and APC. He stated that for the past nine years, the Nigerian opposition parties, Alliance for Democracy (AD), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and APC successfully and unrestrained, smeared, severely damaged and discredited the name PDP before the Nigerian electorates. He also pointed out that a large section of the Nigerian electorates have wrongly been made to believe that the PDP only exists to loot and fleece the economy of Nigeria state. According to him, “Unfortunately the PDP allowed this evil concept to sink and this was largely unsuccessfully challenged. The truth is that we lost the propaganda war even while in control of power. “When the APC won the elections, all hell was let loose. They went wickedly and unrelentingly overboard and further shredded the remains of the name PDP and seriously attempted to bury it. “It is to the Glory of God and the intervention of providence that caused the APC itself to fumble and thoroughly mess up in terms of official corruption and prebendalism. “This is nothing to cheer because, if this perception continues till election in 2023, we can easily be muscled out of victory by the power of incumbency and Nigerians will not care a hoot. It will be a case of dogs eat dogs. “Secondly, and as a consequence of the above, the PDP has a heavy credibility burden, which will weigh it down during the campaigns. A brand new party with new orientation and ideology cannot have a past that anyone can use against it effectively.” The PDP chieftain explained that there are so many registered parties who have learnt a hard lesson from the last elections that Nigerians have no time for political innovators or starters. He further explained that the impending and unavoidable implosion in APC will leave a large chunk of politically strong conclaves in the abyss trying to find relevance and a comfortable and promising coalition. “Most of them because of self pride and personal credibility will not like to come under the so called ‘soiled’ umbrella of the PDP. “However a brand new political formation different in substance and essence from PDP will be a political refuge for them and even others presently undecided to still vigorously pursue their agenda and exploits under the new formation,” he stated. Okupe also clarified that this move will afford the party to take advantage of millions of youths who could not find expressivity in the old political formations like the PDP and APC, as this will make the youth seize the opportunity of newness and the chance of a new beginning, to move in en masse and find relevance on the new and novel platform. “Stakeholders must rise above the sentiments and attachment to the old name, though justifiable, and agree to an opening up of the old party, to allow a new beginning that will lead to a major national movement, which will have the potential to sweep away the APC or whatever vestiges of it make it to the blocks for the 2023 race. “God changed Abram to Abraham so that he could become the father of many nations not his native Chaldean country. God also renamed Jacob, Israel to become the chosen and favoured race. “Bola Tinubu dropped his political baby, the ACN and Buhari parted with his main political platform the CPC, in order to create a new national movement, the APC, which eventually swept away the hither to entrenched PDP. “I just don’t say all this as a joke. Many things we see and experience are controlled by things we do not see. This is spiritual. Those who have ears let them hear,” he added.