Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), a unit of the Lagos State Police Command, have re-arrested Tunde Ajeigbe, 27, a suspected phone snatcher, with two other accomplice (Ekene and Bolenbe). The suspect had been arrested and charged for pick-pocketing and stealing in 2017 by RRS and has again been arrested by the same RRS for similar offence. This time the suspect allegedly rode a motorcycle heading to 7-Up Bottling Company area of Alausa to rob unsuspecting members of the public. It was gathered that Tunde jumped down from the bike and snatched an android phone from a passenger traveling in a commercial bus. He thereafter joined his cohorts on the bike and sped off but luck was against them as witnesses who were at the scene of the crime chased them from that spot until they got to Otedola Bridge and alerted the RRS operatives at pin down underneath the bridge. Police source said the policemen gave the fleeing thieves a hot chase forcing them to abandon their motorcycle and escaped into the bush but Tunde was not so lucky and he was arrested while the two others escaped. In his confessional statement to the police, Tunde said he was arrested for the same offence sometime in 2017 and was charged to court for the crime. He said, “I was arrested around Ojota after I snatched a lady’s phone and got caught by the police.” “I was remanded in the prison since then and was released on November 19, 2019 but couldn’t go back to my wife and child. I went back to the house I rented before going to prison but couldn’t find my property and my family again so I went to the street again. “I went back to Oshodi under bridge to join my friends again who gave me clothes to wear and bought me food before we went back into our usual job. “Although, after spending some days in Mushin, some of my area brothers who knew I just came from prison helped me secure a motorcycle on hire purchase but that wasn’t enough for me as I wanted to make quick money to go and see my mother in the village after leaving home for three years without seeing her.” He continued, “My aged mother would be worried after I left home without returning and no one knew my whereabouts as my wife never informed my family that I have been arrested and remanded in  prison. I therefore sought to steal again to raise some money but unfortunately I was caught again,” he said. Both Ekene and Bolenbe are at large and the police are still on their trail but a motorcycle with registration number FST-279 QJ was recovered from the thieves while they escaped with the stolen phone. Commenting on the development, Hakeem Odumosu, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Lagos State, warned all criminal elements in the state to stay off, as the command would not allow any hiding place for them and vowed to fish them out. He then ordered the case to be transferred to the Special Anti -Robbery Squad (SARS) for further investigations.