LAGOS – At least 143 Nigerian travellers at the Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), Port Harcourt, who were scheduled to travel to Istanbul, Turkey, and beyond became stranded in the country following the burst tyre incident of an aircraft belonging to Turkish Airlines on Tuesday morning. The aircraft’s tyre burst when it landed at the airport, but none of the 280 passengers onboard were injured. The incident led to the disruption of the outbound flight of the airline, which was supposed to take off on Tuesday. Daily Independent gathered that apart from the tyre burst, the hub of the aircraft was also badly damaged due to the incident, which indicated that the airline would also replace the hub. It was learnt that the aircraft was still on the ground in Port Harcourt, and that the management of the airline was awaiting new tyres from Turkey. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A source close to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) confided in our correspondent that the aircraft would remain in Nigeria, but some of the passengers had already been put in hotels in line with the industry’s recommended standards and practices. Also, it was gathered that a quarter of the passengers awaiting boarding had been  endorsed on Ethiopian Airlines, which operates thrice weekly flights to Port Harcourt. It was gathered that Turkish Airlines operate staggered operations to Port Harcourt, which indicated that the passengers would remain in the country for at least 48 hours before they could be ferried out. The source assured that rather than a single flight by the airline on Wednesday afternoon, the carrier would operate two flights in order to clear the backlog of passengers caused by the incident. The source added: “The flight that will come in tomorrow will come in with a specific tyre they need and whatever spare parts they require. By tomorrow, there will be two flights by the airline.” Capt. Abdullahi Sidi, the Ag. Director-General of NCAA, who confirmed the incident on phone to our correspondent, said that AIB would have to ascertain what led to the burst tyre before releasing the airplane to the airline. He added: “You know, we have a procedure in the industry. Even though the aircraft is not a Nigerian airplane, AIB is our own investigation agency to investigate. “The aircraft was seriously damaged. The airline has to bring its engineers from Turkey to fix the airplane. It is not a quick shift thing. Some of the passengers are already in the hotel.”