Federal Government has revealed that it would soon formulate another 10-year National Development Plan, intended to succeed the Economic and Recovery Grow Plan (ERGP) of the present administration. Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja while receiving Japanese Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenitpotentiary to Nigeria, Yutaka Kikuta in his office. Agba said the proposed economic Plan would be broken down into two 5-year medium term plans, from which the annual budgets would be drawn. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He expressed Federal Government’s readiness to make the process of the National Development Plan very inclusive. The minister said the Federal Government had made tremendous progress in her effort to reposition the economy of the country, adding that the most recent progress was the return of the budget cycle from January to December. According to him, “We want to sustain what happened last year in terms of early budget passage; we will continue to work with the National Assembly to repeat the feat. “If we fail to repeat it, it means that what happened was just a chance or a fluke, but if we do it means that we have a process and a plan that we intend to build on.” He added that the return of the Budget cycle to January was deliberate and in line with the current administration’ economic recovery plan, which is culminating in the development of another National Development Plan, intended to succeed the ERGP. Agba commended the Government of Japan for the development assistance and the cordial relationship that has existed between the two countries in the past 60 years and promised to do everything in his power to ensure that the plans are actualised. Earlier, the Japanese Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenitpotentiary to Nigeria, Yutaka Kikuta commended the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration on its economic policies and priorities, saying the administration was on the right track to economic recovery and sustainability. The Ambassador said he was in the Ministry to discuss ways of crystallising Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s promise of assisting to strengthen the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) with a grant of 2billion Japenese Yen, as well as support to the National Defence College. “We support President Buhari’s second term because we deeply believe in his priority areas and we feel the Federal Government is on the right track,” Yutaka Said