LAGOS – A former Minister of Avia­tion, Femi Fani-Kayode has described the Operation Amotekun security outfit initiated by the South-West governors, as the best thing to happen to the region in the last four years. Fani-Kayode commended the six South West governors and other
stakeholders in­volved in the formation and establishment of the security
outfit. The security formation was initiated by the South West states,
namely Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Osun and Ekiti, to tackle the problem of insecu­rity
within the region. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It is expected to comple­ment the efforts of the police force in
tackling the issue of kidnapping, armed robbery, as well as the menace of herds­men,
who have in recent times engaged in various deadly clashes with farmers. Speaking at the inaugura­tion of the outfit on Thursday in
Ibadan, the Oyo State capi­tal, Ekiti State Governor, Kayo­de Fayemi dispelled
rumours making the rounds that Opera­tion Amotekun would work as a regional
police force. Fayemi stated that the Southwest governors were not out to
undermine the in­tegrity and sovereignty of Ni­geria but were providing the
Yoruba people with a “confi­dence-building strategy” to tackle crime and
criminality in the region, adding that Amotekun was neither an alternative to
any of the con­ventional security agencies in the country nor a state police. Speaking further, the Ekiti State governor clarified that
Operation Amotekun would complement and work in collaboration with existing
security agencies to provide adequate security of lives and property in the
region. Reacting via his official Twitter handle, @realFFK, the former
minister also urged governors of the South East and South South to emulate
their South West counterparts, saying that self defence is the first law. The tweet reads: “The Amotekun security outfit &
initiative is the best thing that has happened to the SW states in the last 4
years. I commend the SW Governors & all those involved in its formation
& es­tablishment. I urge the Gover­nors of SS & SE to do the same.
Self-defence is the first la 