The Chairman of UBA Group, Tony O. Elumelu, has made the donation of a multipurpose information technology centre to his alma mater, Ambrose Ali University. Through the UBA Foundation, the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) arm of the United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA), Elumelu has championed the construction of a state-of-the-art multipurpose information technology building, which will benefit the students of Ambrose Alli University in Ekpoma, Edo State. The hall, to be named The Tony O. Elumelu multipurpose hall, is furnished with computers, desks and chairs, measures 839 square meters and has adjoining offices and conveniences. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Elumelu highlighted his motivation: “Education is crucial to Nigeria’s human capital, whether our young people join our national institutions, the private sector or, as I did, take the entrepreneurial path, no one can afford to be cut off from the digital world. It has been a personal mission to ensure that the hall was delivered to specification, for the benefit of the students at the AAU. Success brings with it the duty to give back, and I am just grateful that I am now in a position to meaningfully help the next generation”. The multipurpose hall was formally handed over to the University, at a ceremony attended by members of the University’s governing council and staff, led by Vice-Chancellor, Prof Ignatius Onimawo. Speaking at the commissioning, UBA’s Directorate Head, South Bank, Mr. Chris Ofikulu, who represented the UBA Group Chairman, highlighted the contribution of UBA, through its Foundation, to education and development across Africa. “Tony Elumelu is a product of this great university and is conscious of the need to give back and there is no substitute for world class educational infrastructure, and this is what has informed the construction of these facilities, that will help equip the future leaders of our great nation Nigeria.” he said. Prof Ignatius Onimawo, the AAU Vice Chancellor, who expressed his heartfelt gratitude towards the gesture by the UBA Group Chairman, noted that one of the most pressing needs of the University for 2020 had been met, and thanked UBA and Mr Elumelu. In a related development, REDTV, the foremost lifestyle platform powered by the United Bank for Africa (UBA), has just launched its new and very much anticipated series, Assistant Madams. Creators of the hit series, The Men’s Club, REDTV has been engaging and providing opportunities for talented youths in the creative industry in Africa, since its inception. The crème de la crème of the entertainment industry gathered at the prestigious and newly opened, Ebony Life Place in the bustling city of Lagos, to watch the premiere of Assistant madams. The story revolves around the life of three aspiring female Lagos socialites and their journey to ‘big girl’ status. Speaking at the event, the Executive Producer of REDTV, Bola Atta said  “REDTV was birthed by the United Bank for Africa, to support the creative industry in Nigeria and also across the African continent. For about four years now, we have been creating employment through entertainment. The potential revenue that can be generated in this industry is often under estimated and it is only in recent times that more people have had the courage to leave traditional professions and embrace the creatives. We want to encourage talented and creative professionals to pursue their dreams and to confidently feel that they are contributing to economic growth’. ‘The vision of UBA is to support entrepreneurship across Africa and through REDTV, the bank is connecting African talent to the world. REDTV will continue to harness these talents and to provide opportunities for those who wish to pursue careers in the creative industry’ Atta said. Also speaking at the launch of Assistant madams, Co-producer and director, Tola Odunsi and Akins Akinkugbe expressed their delight at the reception which the new series is receiving. ’’We are pleased to partner with UBA and REDTV to create top quality content and jobs. Assistant madams alone employed over 120 people during the filming of the series and this is significant’. In attendance at the event, were Chris Ubosi, Mo Abudu, veteran photographer Kelechi Amadi Obi, Sola Sobowole, Patrick Doyle, Noble Igwe, Juliet Ibrahim, Toke Makinwa, Uru Eke, Obi Asika, Koye Sowemimo, Debola Williams, Sharon Ooja, Bollylomo,  Funke Babs Kufreji, Obi Asika, Bisola Aiyeola, Osas Ighodaro, Tana Adelana, Sophie Alakija, Taymesan Emmanuel, Ayo Ayoola, Efa Iwara, and many noteworthy entertainers. Assistant Madams will premiere on Youtube @itsredtv on January 15, 2020. REDTV is a fast paced lifestyle channel that puts Africa on the global stage. Proudly powered by the United Bank for Africa, the network is an entertainment platform with rich content that feature the very best of Africa.