Lagos – Global e-commerce retail revenue has been projected to grow by $6.54 trillion by 2023, as against the $3.53 trillion recorded in 2019, according to figures obtained from Statista. The report also noted that the growth presents opportunities that will shape e-commerce business in the years ahead. “It is however expected that players in the sector will profit from the various trends, which are potent to transform the e-commerce sector in Nigeria into a profit-making venture. These trends that will shape the future of e-commerce include the rise and rise of mobile shopping, it said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the 2019Jumia Mobile Report 85% of the Nigerian consumers on the platform shopped via their mobile devices, that is, via mobile web and the Jumia mobile App. “This is rather unsurprising because at the end of 2018, there were over five billion unique mobile subscribers across the globe, and 60% of the connection was through mobile devices, according to GSMA, 2019. Also, internet users peaked at 3.6 billion, while locally, there were over 172 million Nigerians (87% penetration of the Nigerian population) who had access to mobile devices, whereas only 112 million Nigerians had access to the internet. “While the number of mobile and smartphone users might have increased year-on-year, its penetration is still very insignificant. Internet connectivity and the availability of affordable smartphones continue to drive an increasing uptake of mobile shopping. “The year 2020 will witness the entrance of new, affordable mobile devices and, the government’s efforts to expand the reach of the internet through the various mobile operators; will further drive increased mobile shopping. Similarly, e-commerce platforms are gradually doubling as an advertising platform for businesses. Although, while not all visit the platforms to order an item, it has been noticed that most of them use the prices listed on the platforms as a benchmark for validating price difference in offline stores. “For instance, during the 2019 Black Friday, Jumia recorded over 100 million unique visitors and over one billion page views during the one month campaign. The increasing number of traffic being witnessed daily on e-commerce platforms presents a compelling case for monetizing this huge advantage”. As many advertisers are seeking for innovative ways to reach their target audience, leveraging e-commerce platforms with reach across the continent will deliver on such objective. “Just recently, Jumia announced that its platform will now be available to businesses to advertise their products and services. In fact, according to the company’s CEO, Juliet Anammah, the advertising initiative is one of the strategic levers of growth for the company in 2020”. Therefore, e-commerce platforms are expected to play big in online advertising as it provides significant opportunity to grow core offerings and profitability. Alibaba has already become the market leader in digital advertising in China. Amazon is estimated to have generated huge ad revenue. Jumia is building a robust online advertising to help other businesses manage their ads, reach more buyers and increase sales. Besides, more SMEs and big brands will take advantage of the growth potential to leverage e-commerce to drive growth. “As businesses expand beyond their local markets, both big, small and medium-size businesses are expected to leverage e-commerce for growth in 2020. Big and small businesses will increase the use of e-commerce to boost conversion, create a personalised customer experience, use data for deeper insights, cross-sell to existing customers and leverage discounts to increase sales”.