BENIN  – Any attempt to impose Senator Odion Ugbesia as the Edo state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and successor to Chief Dan Orbil will spell doom to the party in the state. The youth wing of the party in the state gave the warning on Sunday in gave and urged the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus to urgently intervene in the crisis to avoid implosion ahead of the party congresses. According to the youth, any plot by the State Chairman of the party, Chief Dan Orbih, to impose Senator Odion Ugbesia as his successor at the forthcoming congress would cause the party to fail in the 2020 governorship election. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Four persons have indicated interest to succeed Chief Orbih whose tenure ends in March this year. The four persons are Senator Odion Ugbesia, Engr. Fred Okah, Hon. Tony Azegbemin and Chief Omi Imoisili Coordinator of the PDP youth wing in Edo state under the aupicies of PDP Youths for Justice, Alhaji Musa Kadiri, in a press statement issued in Benin City tasked Secondus to tackle Edo PDP crisis at the party’s National Working Committee meeting scheduled for Tuesday, January 21. Alhaji Kadiri said Senator Ugbesia was not fit to pilot the affairs of the Edo PDP. Kadiri stated that the best option for the PDP to be united and strong after the congresses was for the party to revert to its zoning principles. He said, “Chief Orbih is attempting to kill Edo PDP after his tenure which is why he is pushing for Senator Ugbesia. “Ugbesia achieved nothing as a Senator and cannot lead PDP to the seat of power in Edo. “The party can zone the Chairmanship to Owan axis or Edo South senatorial district which has not produced the chairman since 1999. “We are putting Secondus on notice to save Edo PDP. Any attempt to allow Chief Orbih have his way would put the party in jeopardy. Also, the Concerned Youth Forum of Edo PDP led by Mr. Obaruakporo John blamed Chief Orbih for the party’s failure to produce governor in Edo in his twelve years as the party chairman. Obaruakporo said Edo Central has won all elections for PDP from Presidential to House of Assembly since 1999 except in 2019 when the chairman forced all the candidates on the party and it resulted to total failure. “But the Edo Central has never produced Governor or Deputy Governor in Edo State. In all previous elections Governorship has always been zoned but now that its obviously the turn of Edo Central to produce Governorship candidate for PDP, the Dan Orbih led leadership have planned a coup against Edo Central by leaving the zoning open to all for contest but this is not happening without some betrayals and traitors from Edo Central collaborating with Orbih to effect his plan.  