LAGOS – The Senate yesterday disclosed that it would probe the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) over the sum of $396 million expended on Turn-Around Maintenance of refineries in the country between 2013 and 2015. Besides, the Upper Chamber mandated the Committee on Petroleum Downstream, Upstream and Gas to carry out a holistic investigation on the Turn-Around Maintenance expenditures and the current state of the refineries as well as convoke a stakeholder’s conference with the aim of finding ways to revamp them. The decision to investigate expenditures on maintenance of refineries by the Corporation was reached after consideration of a motion brought to the floor by Senator Yusuf A. Yusuf (APC, Taraba Central). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He noted that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation has four refineries: two in Port-Harcourt (PHRC) and one each in Kaduna (KRPC) and Warri (WRPC). According to him, the refineries were established to adequately supply and serve needs for Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK), Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), Low Pour Fuel Oil (LPFO), High Pour Fuel Oil (HPFO) and Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK) for both local consumption and exports. He said: “The country through NNPC has in the past 25 years spent billions of US dollars in Turn-Around Maintenance of the refineries, the latest being over $396 million spent between 2013 and 2015 without meaningful result.” He lamented that the refineries have remained in moribund state in the last 15-20 years and is almost reaching total collapse due to lack of proposer maintenance of the facilities with a poor average capacity utilisation hovering between fifteen percent and twenty-five percent per annum.” According to him, “Despite the huge spending on turn-around Maintenance of refineries, NNPC recently announced a cumulative loss of N123.25 billion in 10 months (January to October, 2019), putting the total revenue of facilities at N68.82 billion, while total expenses incurred was N192.1 billion within the same period.” He said such huge wastage and slippages amidst the nation’s tight economy, if not addressed may plunge the country into recession The lawmaker added that such losses, when averted and combined with the huge expenditures in “under recovery” on fuel pump price and properly channeled into full rehabilitation and construction of modern refineries, would positively impact on the economy and save the country from the embarrassment of importation of petroleum products and its ripple effect. Nigeria, had over the years expended huge resources on the maintenance of the refineries without any appreciable impact on the asset. The development was amply responsible for the country’s continuous reliance on importation of petroleum resources outside the shores of the country. Maikanti Baru, Former Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), had last year said the country’s refineries had not undergone Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) for an aggregate of 42 years. He said that in spite of the challenge, major rehabilitation works were carried out in all the three refineries. He said that the Warri Refinery and Petrochemical Company had its Distribution Control System successfully upgraded while the Port Harcourt Refining Company had major interventions in Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit, and Power Plant Unit fixed.