The Confederation of African Football (CAF) expectedly on Wednesday moved the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon from June to July to January/February on the premise of unfavourable weather conditions in the country at the time. The switch also means it will avoid clashing with FIFA’s expanded Club World Cup, due to take place in China in June 2021. Before the shift of the new date at the instance of Cameroon was decided, CAF and FECAFOOT officials met on Wednesday reviewed the period of the competition. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We have reviewed the period of the competition as requested by the Cameroonian party due to unfavourable climatic conditions during the period initially slated,” said Caf’s deputy general secretary, Tony Baffoe. “After listening to the various arguments and viewpoints, and in particular from the Cameroonian meteorological authorities, the coaches and players; the representatives of the AFCON organising committee, which received the mandate from CAF Executive Committee to take the decision, has granted this request.” The first implication of this decision is that the global sports media will be divided between the various European leagues that will be on at that time and the Africa Cup of Nations. It means the AFCON will not get the sort of media patronage that it deserves. The tournament may be denied the services of some of its top stars as several clubs in Europe will be constrained to release them for AFCON, if the absence of these players will impact negatively on their fortune. Mostly to be affected are the Premier League clubs that have many African stars plying their trade there. Liverpool are likely to be one of the clubs most affected by the switch, with Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Naby Keita all likely to play an important role for their respective countries at the tournament. Leicester is another with Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho among others will also be needed by Nigeria. When considering pre-tournament training camps, one of more of the trio would be absent for around six weeks should Egypt, Senegal or Guinea reach the final, missing up to six league matches as well any domestic cup ties. Arsenal will also be affected by the move with Pierre-Emerick Aubamayang and Nicolas Pepe likely to be called up by Gabon and Ivory Coast respectively. Champions Manchester City, meanwhile, would have to do without Riyad Mahrez should Algeria reach the tournament. Wilfried Zaha, Serge Aurier and Wilfried Ndidi are among a number of other Premier League players who could be involved while Achraf Hakimi, Andre Onana and Franck Kessie may be forced to miss crucial matches for some of Europe’s biggest clubs. The 2019 edition – hosted by Egypt and won by Algeria – was held in July, as CAF elected to move the tournament to fit in line with the northern hemisphere summer, meaning clubs in Europe’s major leagues were unaffected. However, sweltering conditions in Egypt led to the decision to switch to tournament to June and July being questioned. Cameroon was initially scheduled to host last year’s tournament, but was stripped of it in November 2018 due to inadequate infrastructure.