LAGOS – George Akume, former Senator representing Benue North West and currently Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, is on the spotlight, albeit negatively. He has been accused of making scathing and derogatory statements against Prof. James Ayatse, Tor Tiv, a foremost paramount ruler of Tivland, accusing him of partisanship during a recent ceremony in Makurdi, the state capita. Already, there is palpable tension in Benue State, with the youths threatening fire and brimstone, holding pockets of protests over Akume’s alleged statements said to be uncomplimentary to the Tiv traditional institution, Akume, a popular Tiv son and veteran Benue politician, is a two-term governor and three-time Senator. He is an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain and estranged godfather of Governor Samuel Ortom of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He is also godfather to several Benue politicians holding sway at different levels of governance. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Akume, who lost his senatorial seat in the last election, reportedly claimed that Tor Tiv played a key role in his defeat, a statement the generality of Tiv people see as an insult to their revered monarch and custodian of the people’s tradition. Allegedly referring the Tor Tiv as ‘Tor Parti’ (King of politics), Akume also reportedly castigated the church in Benue State, calling Pentecostal denominations, which Tor Tiv fellowships, as insignificant groups who had no electoral value. Following the uproar over Akume’s alleged offences, the Tiv Area Traditional Council, after a meeting in Gboko, summoned the minister. A communiqué signed by Tor Kwande, Chief Ambrose Iyortyer and the Council Secretary, Mr. Shinyi Tyozua, read in part: “On the issue of the uncomplimentary and derogatory remarks against the Tor Tiv, the meeting noted the weighty nature of the allegation. It was, therefore, resolved that Akume, who is a Tiv son, should be urgently formally invited in writing to appear before the Council and defend himself on the allegation.” The Council cautioned Tiv sons and daughters and their allies, especially those in politics, to desist from acts capable of generating tension, bad blood, acrimony and hatred within the polity for peace to reign in the land. Also, the Tiv Youth Organisation (TYO) urged President Muhamadu Buhari to call Akume to order over his alleged insults on the person and office of the Tor Tiv, Prof. Ayatse, Chairman, Benue State Council of Chiefs. Timothy Hembaor, President General, Tiv Youth Organisation (TYO), in a statement, said, “We as youths of Tiv land, view Senator Akume’s utterances against the Tor Tiv and the entire Tiv traditional institution as sacrilegious, abominable and unacceptable coming from a supposed prominent son of Benue State. “Akume’s claims that Tor Tiv played a key role in his defeat at the last general elections, is neither here nor there. How did the Tor Tiv cause Akume’s defeat? Was the paramount ruler part of INEC or did he prevent Akume’s supporters from voting for the Senator? “This is not the first time that Senator Akume has cast aspersions on the integrity of the Tor Tiv and other leaders of the land. Akume has not spared any Benue son or daughter from his vitriol since he lost his bid to return to the red chamber of the National Assembly. The disturbing trend has now moved against the Chief Custodian of the Tiv cultural heritage the Tor Tiv. We, therefore, wish to urge president Muhammadu Buhari to, as a matter of urgency, call his minister to order. “This should be the last time that Senator Akume or anyone else hiding behind a political veil would make public statements against the Tor Tiv and other traditional rulers of the state. The Tiv paramount ruler is not a politician. “The very time Professor James Ayatse ascended the Tiv Paramount throne, he cautioned traditional rulers under him to stay away from politics. He urged the royal fathers to be at peace with all their sons and daughters seeking political positions irrespective of the party they belong to, and to be neutral at all times. He has led by example. “It is therefore instructive that Senator Akume and his ilk should spare the Tor Tiv of the partisan tag. As a two-term governor and three-time Senator, Akume more than anyone else ought to have known how illustrious sons of other lands accord high regard to their traditional rulers. His outing against the Tor Tiv was not only shameful and hypocritical but it also exposed him as a bitter man. TYO also demanded that Akume should publicly tender an unreserved apology to the monarch and the entire Tiv nation over his unguarded statements. The apology, TYO believed, was important as it would serve as deterrent to others in the habit of launching verbal and written attacks on our royal fathers. It stressed: “As the Tiv umbrella youth body, we are disappointment that instead of rolling out his achievements as a minister representing the state, Akume would rather take the path of dishonour and infamy. For a man who had not visited Benue State since his appointment as minister, his people back home expected to hear the ‘good news’ of development, but certainly not bile which he poured on the royal father. “What Senator George Akume has begun, if not quickly nipped in the bud, will degenerate and become a negative standard for the younger generation who will grow up assuming that it is normal to insult the paramount ruler and other chiefs. “We, therefore, call on all sons and daughters of the Tiv Nation to rise up in condemnation of Senator Akume’s verbal attacks on the holder of the highest traditional office in the land. Akume must be made to publicly apologise to the Tor Tiv, failure of which appropriate sanctions should be applied.” To add to Akume’s headache, the Benue State Caucus of the National Assembly described as unfortunate Akume’s utterances against the Tor Tiv. The group also asked Akume to de-escalate what they termed as “ugly situation” in the best interest of the state and tender an unreserved apology to Tor Tiv. The members, in a statement signed by Benue State’s three serving senators, Sen Gabriel Suswam, Sen. Abba Moro, Sen. Emmanuel Orker Jev and seven House Representatives members, maintained that Akume’s utterances was totally unacceptable, especially coming from a Benue son and a man who has occupied highest positions of leadership in the state and beyond. They maintained that if Akume’s utterances as “most unfortunate”, and portend grave consequences not only on the image of Benue State, but would set a negative precedence for the present and future generations. They stressed that Tor Tiv, as Chairman, Benue State Council of Chiefs, must be respected by all Benue sons and daughters, regardless of their status and locations, adding that it was the practice with every African society, to respect their leaders. In his reaction, James Ornguga, Acting Publicity Secretary, All Progressives Congress (APC), Benue State chapter, accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state of conscripting the paramount ruler into its fold. “We find this act by the PDP in Benue, especially the so-called ‘Benue National Assembly Caucus’ as needless meddlesomeness into a matter that should be the exclusive preserve of Tiv Area Traditional Council. This is akin to an attempt to quench fire with petrol,” he stated Chief Ochi Emmanuel Ode, Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC) and Leader, Igede People of Integrity, an influential political pressure group in Benue State, said, “It is rather unfortunate if Senator Akume allowed his ill- feeling about election issues to overcloud his judgement in making derogatory remarks about the person of Tor Tiv. Chief Ode, the Oji Kpururu 1 of Ibilla, added, “First and foremost, he should remember that he is a Ticv man. And insulting the traditional institution that represents his root is not the answer to his ill feelings, no matter what.” Akume Ayatse