UYO – As the people of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District warm up for a rerun in Essien Udim LGA of Akwa Ibom State, earlier ordered by Appeal Court, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr. Mike Igini, has appealed to political stakeholders in the area to avoid exhibiting those vices that led to the cancellation of last elections in the council area. Reading the Appeal Court judgment on why elections were cancelled in the area, to include unprecedented violence, intimidation, thuggery, hijacking of elections materials among others, he said, such informed the decision of the court to order for a re-run in the area. The REC handed down the appeal while addressing chairmen and secretaries of the 19 political parties that would participate in the January 25 re-run election, in his office on Tuesday in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital. Igini reminded the people that since rerun would hold only in Essein Udim council area, movement would only be restricted in that council area, calling on political stakeholders from other part of the state to restrict themselves to their areas. He further explained to the affected parties that the re-run would affect senatorial, federal constituency and state House of Assembly elections, adding that in the senatorial and federal House elections, voting would take place in all the 159 polling units, while voting would take place in 137 polling units out of 159 in the House of Assembly elections. This, he narrated, was as a result of the Appeal Court judgment which confirmed and preserved subsisting results of 22 polling units out of the 157 in the council area. “In 2019 we conducted elections, following the outcome of the elections, various candidates went to court; from the tribunal to Court of Apperal where the three elections were ordered. Specifically, the Court had ordered that election in Essien Udim shall be.re-conducted and preserved and affirmed election of 9 local government areas. “On January 25, we are going to have election in the entire 159 polling units in Essien Udim for the senate and House of Representatives. But for the state constituency, in line with the affirmation of what we have done by two courts of the land, we will have elections in 137 polling units, in 22 polling units, there will be no ballot for the state constituency. If you add 22 with 137, it gives you 159, so because the 22 polling units, the results on Foarm EC8a of those polling units are available, that is why. “The re-run is in one local government area out of the 31 in the state, according to the court, the election had to be re-conducted on account of perfected unprecedented violence, thuggery, hijacking of electoral materials on election day. I want to remind all of us that, this act should repeat because conducting elections go with cost.”