ABUJA – Federal Government has pledged to establish agro-allied industries in all senatorial districts across the country. Amb. Mariam Yalwaji Katagum, Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, who disclosed this at a meeting with a delegation from the Amana Farmers and Grains Suppliers Association of Nigeria (AFGSAN) led by its Chairman, Haruna Ahmad Pambeguwa in her Office in Abuja, said the decision was borne out of the Federal Government quest to industralise the country, ensure food security and enhance economic development of the country. According to Katagum, “Government is very much interested in growing the economy, looking at other areas like cotton, textile, garment, grains, tomatoes, we need to add value. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Mr. President has directed that in every senatorial district, we should establish an agro allied industry and we know some industries exist but you can assist us in identifying the agro-allied industries that will be suited for you” The minister maintained that land border closure is a lesson and a blessing to the nation, adding that “It shows that we can produce what we need to eat and even export, my appeal is that there are critical lessons we have learnt, let us not go back, let us continue with farming even if we find oil in any part of the country.” She underscored the need for value addition and certification of the Nigeria’s food produce for increased revenue generation as well as meeting the global standard for export. To this end, Katagum urged the Association to register with the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) as well as the Commodity and Export Department in the Ministry and other relevant agencies for necessary technical assistance. Earlier, the Chairman of Amana Farmers and Grains Suppliers Association of Nigeria (AFGSAN), Haruna Ahmad Pambeguwa, said the delegation was in the Ministry to congratulate the minister on her well-deserved appointment as well as seek ministry’s support to compete globally with their products. Pambeguwa, said the Association has national spread with massive investments in agro- allied business in various agricultural value chain. He further commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his good leadership style, saying that, the ban on importation of rice has created more jobs for the youths. In his remarks,  the Director of Commodity and Export Department in the Ministry, Mr.  Napoleon Abalaka, said the ministry had embarked on Global Gap Training (GGT),in the last four years. Abalak said the training was as a result of the ban in some of the Nigeria’s food produce, adding that the Global Gap Certification Firm, an international capacity building body is   to train and certify every commodity that is exported. To this end, he promised that the members of the Association would be considered by the Ministry in its subsequent training.