LAGOS – Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, the newly-redeployed Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, on Monday promised to bring her wealth of experience to bear in her quest to harness the tourism and entertainment potentials of the state. Akinbile-Yusuf, who made the statement while addressing staff of the Ministry upon resumption to her new duty-post, said that her legacies in her previous places of assignments are evident and speak volume to her result-oriented nature. The commissioner, who had served in the Ministry of Youth and Social Development, as well as Wealth Creation and Employment under the immediate past administration in the state, was appointed Commissioner for Home Affairs under the incumbent administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu prior to her recent redeployment to the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She confirmed that the cooperation she enjoyed in the previous ministries where she served made her excel. The minister enjoined officials of the Ministry of Tourism to be innovative and come up with ideas that would complement her vision for the ministry in line with the policy framework of Governor Sanwo-Olu’s drive for Entertainment and Tourism as enunciated in his T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. “I believe that ideas rule the world, I believe in good ideas that can promote government and promote the ministry. There is always something new that we can tell the world about Lagos tourism on a daily basis and as such, we must be determined to sell Lagos State to the outside world with the aim of improving our local economy,” Akinbile-Yusuf said. The commissioner, who stressed the need for cordial relationship among the staff, noted that the success of any of the departments should be collectively celebrated as a joint effort made possible through mutual effort. “Don’t indulge in excuses but be result-driven in your respective duties,” the commissioner added. She reiterated her desire to maintain a target of 80 per cent budgetary performance of resources allocated to the Ministry for the year and ensure that funds are judiciously used for the intended purposes to better the lot of Lagos residents.