LAGOS – Super Eagles 2022 World Cup African qualifying group will be known today when the draw is conducted by the Confederation of African Football in Cairo. The draw will start at 7.00pm in Cairo but 5.00pm in Nigeria. The 40 teams that reached the second round of the qualifying series have drawn into four groups of 10 teams each with Nigerian drawn in Pot 1 alongside Algeria, Senegal, Tunisia, Morocco, Ghana, Egypt, Cameroon, Mali and Congo DR. Five of the teams that represented Africa at the last World Cup in Russia are drawn in Pot 1 and they are Nigeria, Senegal, Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco. Reigning CAF Africa Cup of Nations champions Algeria are in the hat with them. The Desert Foxes missed out on a place at Russia 2018 and will be anxious to return to the World Cup scene for the first time since Brazil 2014. The same goes for Ghana and Cameroon. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Completing Pot 1 are Congo DR and Mali. The Leopards have not graced the world finals since Germany 1974, when they went by the name of Zaire, while the Eagles have never qualified. Pot 2 teams are Burkina Faso, South Africa, Guinea, Uganda, Cabo Verde, Gabon, Benin, Zambia, Congo and Côte d’Ivoire, while teams in Pot 3 are Madagascar, Mauritania, Libya, Mozambique, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Niger, Central African Republic, Namibia and Guinea-Bissau. Teams in Pot 4 are Malawi, Angola, Togo, Sudan, Rwanda, Tanzania, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Liberia and Djibouti. The 40 teams will be drawn into 10 groups of four teams with the group winners qua;ifying for the third and last phase of the qualifiers. The ten group winners will be drawn into five two-legged knockout ties to be played in November 2021. However, the good news is that Nigeria cannot be grouped alongside any of the teams in Pot 1 but every Pot 1 team will want to avoid Cote d’ Ivoire, the biggest team in Pot 2 How Pots Shape Up Pot 1: Maghreb nations looking strong The continent’s big guns line up in Pot 1, among them the five nations that represented Africa at the last FIFA World Cup: Tunisia, Nigeria, Morocco, Egypt and Senegal. Reigning CAF Africa Cup of Nations champions Algeria are in the hat with them. The Desert Foxes missed out on a place at Russia 2018 and will be anxious to return to the World Cup scene for the first time since Brazil 2014. The same goes for Ghana and Cameroon. Completing Pot 1 are Congo DR and Mali. The Leopards have not graced the world finals since Germany 1974, when they went by the name of Zaire, while the Eagles have never qualified. Pot 2: Côte d’Ivoire the team to avoid Two sides with World Cup experience figure in Pot 2: the formidable Côte d’Ivoire, who will be led by their fearsome strike duo of Nicolas Pepe and Wilfried Zaha; and South Africa, who have failed to make the big stage since hosting the 2010 tournament, an absence they are keen to end. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s Gabon and Naby Keita’s Guinea are two ambitious sides that will also pose a threat, despite their record of never having qualified. Burkina Faso, Uganda, Cape Verde, Benin, Zambia and Congo are also capable of big things and should not be underestimated. Pot 3: Outsiders with big ideas None of the teams in Pot 3 have ever qualified for the biggest tournament in football, though the likes of Madagascar and Mauritania have made significant progress in recent times and look increasingly capable of taking that last step. Joining them are Namibia, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and Zimbabwe, who have all been on the qualification campaign trail for several months now. The quartet emerged from a tricky first round and have designs on going further. Rounding off the pot are Libya, Niger, Kenya and Central African Republic, who all fancy their chances of causing an upset and making the third round. Pot 4: Potential surprise packages The fourth and final pot is an indication of the quality on show in the group phase, containing as it does two previous World Cup qualifiers in Togo and Angola. Alongside them are teams of the calibre of Tanzania – back in the limelight after appearing at their first Africa Cup of Nations in 40 years – Malawi and Liberia, who respectively knocked out Botswana and Sierra Leone in the last round. Ethiopia, Rwanda, Sudan, Djibouti and Equatorial Guinea also negotiated the preliminary phase and are aiming to make their presence felt in what promises to be an exciting second round.