Abuja  – Claims from the American government as well as the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that Christians in Nigeria were being persecuted elicited reactions from the presidency on Tuesday. The speculations, which may not have gone down well with the government, prompted Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, to issue a statement in an attempt to correct some bias. According to the presidential aide, it was highly regrettable that terrorists capitalised on the nation’s religious differences to create division but the people who should know better help them to fan the embers of discord. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The debate follows the latest abduction of CAN chairman in Adamawa State, Rev Lawan Andimi, by Boko Haram sect members. He was seen in a recorded video pleading for help from constituted authorities in the country. Shehu said: “The security forces of Nigeria are working continuously to return those taken hostage by Boko Haram to their families, friends and communities. In doing this, the government has full confidence in their ability to accomplish the task. “On its own part, government has condemned some of the appalling acts of terror, especially following the festive period. Yet, to continue to see these happenings solely in religious terms – removed from social, economic, and environmental factors – simplifies complexities that must be heeded. “Not seeing them as they should be is exactly what the terrorists and groups wish: they want Nigerians to see their beliefs as reason to turn against one another. “On the contrary, Christians and Muslims alike are united in their opposition to Boko Haram and the hatred for decency that the infamous group stands for. “Nigerians must continue to be united in ensuring that they do not subscribe to the terrorists’ message of division. Unfortunately, some leaders and politicians seek to make political capital from our religious differences. “As we fight Boko Haram on the ground, so too must we tackle their beliefs: stability and unity in face of their hatred is itself a rejection of their worldview. “This government shall never tolerate religious intolerance. We clearly and unambiguously restate our support for the freedom to practice whichever belief you wish. The politicisation of religion – as forbidden by the constitution – has no place in Nigeria.”