LAFIA – Abubakar Mohammed Adamu, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), on Wednesday called on North Central governors to adopt the Federal Government’s strategy of community policing to curb incessant security problems in the region. The IGP, who stated this while declaring the North-Central Region’s Security Summit open in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, said that adopting the community policing strategy in the region would drastically address crime and curb criminality in the various states. Adamu emphasised the need to make community policing proactive for the members so as to actively participate in the process of solving community security challenges in the region. According to IGP, “It is worthwhile to note that the foundation of our community policing strategy rests on the cooperation of the traditional rulers who will be asked to nominate credible citizens to be trained by the police as community policing officers. “A successful community policing strategy will increase trust, confidence and communication between the community and the police and most significantly reduce crime. “In line with the Federal Government’s agenda, deliberate strategic steps have been taken to deepen community policing by living up to the responsibility for the protection of lives and property of Nigerians,” he said. The IGP further informed that during his first year in office, the Police arrested 6,531 suspects nationwide and 2,037 firearms were recovered. In his welcome speech, Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, said the Muhammadu Buhari administration’s community policing strategy to address the security challenges in the country would go long way in curbing lingering crimes the state. He explained that this country is contending with a lot of security challenges, ranging from bomb explosions, armed robbery, human trafficking, kidnapping and abduction, murder, activities of Boko Haram sect, communal clashes and conflict between farmers and herdsmen, among others. According to Sule,” Criminality has led to the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which are freely used by unpatriotic elements to achieve heinous and selfish aims. “This unpleasant development has become worrisome and a cause for concern not only to the security agencies but to all and sundry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The coming on board of the present administration under President Muhammadu Buhari, has no doubt, significantly degraded the activities of Boko Haram and sundry insurgent onslaught. However, the resurgence of attacks on soft targets and security formations by the dreaded Boko Haram in the North-Eastern part of the country, as well as kidnapping and the activities of bandits in some parts of the North-West, including farmers and herdsmen crisis in the in the region, is worrisome,” he said.