Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie So many people are complaining because of their business. They talk about setback in their business and business stagnation. Some people even claim that their businesses are being tied down by evil forces. While others believe that the door of their business is completely locked by their enemies. That is why they are not recording success in their business. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As result most people usually visit native doctors because of their business? Some people have gone as far as performing ritual sacrifices in order to attract customers to their business. Others are moving from one spiritual church to another looking for breakthrough in their business. In a nutshell, people are looking for the key to unlock their locked business. I am not just here to enlighten you on what you must know and do in order to gain success in your business. I am also here to release your business from every closed doors and every spirit of stagnation. With this reflection every closed doors in your business is about to be declared open. As you go through this message you will experience breakthrough in your business. God will deliver you from business related issues. One of the reasons why I am so very much interested in your business breakthrough is because it has a lot to do with youth liberation and youth empowerment. “I strongly believe that through business breakthrough most our unemployed youths will be gainfully employed. Our economy will improve rapidly”. The book of Proverbs 24:3-4 presents three important principles or if you like three values that are indispensable for business breakthrough. “Through wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established; and by knowledge the rooms shall be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.” Wisdom, knowledge and understanding are the foundation of every successful business. They are the channel through which wealth and riches are created. We cannot succeed in our business with wisdom, knowledge and understanding. If you truly want to succeed then you must be wise, knowledgeable and understanding. Breakthrough through Wisdom: Wisdom, according to Albert Einstein, is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it.” Our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves.” (Matthew 10:16). In your business, you need to be wise as serpent. Wisdom is made manifest through wise sayings. Your speech shows how wise or how foolish you are. That is why the psalmist declares, “The mouths of the righteous utter wisdom, and their tongues speak what is just” (Psalm 37:30). A wise businessman will always address his customers with respect, whereas a foolish business woman will always insult his or her customers, especially when they try to prize their product. Most foolish businessmen have used their mouth to destroy their business without knowing. The way you address your customers is the way the customers will address you. If you address your customers with respect is rest assured that the customers will relate to you with respect. Business is built through wisdom and not through money. Most people often think that money is the foundation of business, but this a wrong notion. That is why most people have failed in their business even with the huge sum of money they have invested into their business. Money without wisdom can only lead to foolish expenses. However, any business that is built on wisdom strives.  Before embarking on any business trip you need to pray for divine wisdom. The book of Ecclesiastes 2:26 declares, “God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in His sight; but to the sinner He gives the work of gathering and collecting, that he may give to him who is good before God.” Wisdom, knowledge and joy are special gifts from the Most High God. These gifts are given to those who find favour in God’s sight, the good ones.  These values are not just essential they are also indispensable. You cannot succeed in your business without them. Breakthrough through Knowledge: Knowledge is the ability to know the entire necessary things one need to know concerning his or her business and its operations. Without clearer knowledge and understanding of a business one cannot operate a business successfully. Business known is business boom. An apprentice is one who acquires knowledge of a business through his or her master. According to Christopher Pike, Sati, and a true teacher (or Master) would never tell you what to do but he would give you the knowledge with which you could decide what would be best for you to do.” Knowledge is power. The more knowledge you acquire the more powerful you become, even in your business. Knowledge is not just power it is also the source of wealth. An intelligent man is a wealthy man. You may not have money but with knowledge you have all it takes to acquire wealth. “Knowledge without application is simply knowledge. Applying the knowledge to one’s life is wisdom — and that is the ultimate virtue” Kasi Kaye Iliopoulos, “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, But fools despise wisdom and instruction” (Proverbs 1:7) Breakthrough through Understanding: Apart from wisdom and knowledge, Understanding is the channel through which business is established. One cannot just jump into business with understanding the ups and downs of the business. One need to understand businesses that are profitable and businesses that are not profitable. One need to also understand the various seasons that are favorable to each business. Dave Thomas presents three things one must know before embarking on business: “What do you need to start a business? Three simple things: know your product better than anyone, know your customer, and have a burning desire to succeed.” He does not just need to know his or her product, he should also make effort to know the quality of the product and as much as possible the expiring dates of the product. The knowledge of one’s customer is not just essential it is also indispensable. Without knowing one’s targeted customer one may end up establishing a business in areas where there are no customers for that particular product. For instance, any businessman that sells plane parts in rural areas may end up building a museum without patronage. The knowledge of product and customers is incomplete without the burning desire to succeed. Success is in the mind. Without the power of the mind to contextualise success it can never be realized. The book of proverbs 4:1-2 presents the best way through which we can acquire understanding? “Hear, my children, the instruction of a father, and give attention to know understanding; 2 For I give you good doctrine: Do not forsake my law.” Parents have a vital role to play as long as understanding is concern. In addition to these three principles, hard work remains an indispensable value to business breakthrough. David Rockefeller declares “Success in business requires training and discipline and hard work. But if you’re not frightened by these things, the opportunities are just as great today as they ever were.” Apart from training and all the values one need to acquire before embarking on business, hard ward remains the ultimate. The book of Proverbs 14:23-24 declares, “All hard work brings a profit, but mere talk leads only to poverty. The wealth of the wise is their crown, but the folly of fools yields folly.” Child of God, this is the end of foolishness in your business. As you apply these principles you will not just be wise in your business, you will start recording success in your business. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!