ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has sought the cooperation of the National Crime Agency of the United Kingdom in the investigation of fugitives from Nigeria finding accommodation in that country. Femi Adesina, the president’s special adviser on media and publicity, in a statement in Abuja, said the Nigerian leader made the call during a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Boris Johnson in London on Monday. The two leaders met on the sidelines of the UK-Africa
Investment Summit 2020. Buhari said the ongoing anti-corruption war in Nigeria,
though slow and painstaking, needed the cooperation of the agency. Former
Minister of Petroleum, Diezani Alison-Madueke, and other Nigerian fugitives in
the UK had fled into exile since 2015 when the current administration of Buhari
came onboard. In 2017, a Federal High Court in Lagos, presided over by Justice
Abdulazeez Anka, had ordered the final forfeiture of N7.6 billion alleged loot
recovered by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) from
Alison-Madueke. Buhari also updated Johnson on the positive developments in
Nigeria in different areas of national endeavour. He told Johnson of strides in agriculture, leading almost to
self-sufficiency in rice and other grains, which is saving the country billions
in foreign exchange now deployed to other areas of development. On the war
against insurgency, the president said things were a lot better, with the
disabusing of the minds of the people on the true philosophy of Boko Haram. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said although there were challenges in the area of
resettling displaced people, it was being tackled frontally. “We have a long
history with the British military, and we are collaborating,” Buhari added. On
climate change, the president said it was a challenge to Nigeria and
neighbouring African countries, especially with the shrinkage of the Lake Chad.
He also said the country was making progress on education, particularly that of
the girl child. In his remarks, Johnson thanked Buhari for being “a regional
leader who gives strong encouragement to the West”. He congratulated him on jobs being created through
agriculture and urged him to do more. He equally lauded the Nigerian president
for what he called the “social and economic benefits” that had accrued to the
country since 2015. Johnson promised that the necessary hand of fellowship
would be extended to Nigeria on its war against corruption, through the
National Crime Agency. He pledged to cooperate with Nigeria and other African
countries in the inter-basin water transfer, which could solve the Lake Chad
problem, and enhance security in the sub-region. On the Commonwealth Free Trade
Area, the prime minister applauded the idea and pledged a careful
consideration. He charged the Nigerian leader to keep the national autonomy of
his country intact, noting that in the future, Nigeria would not just be a
continental power but also an international power.