Abuja – The All Progressives Congress Local Government Chairmen (APC-LGC) has alleged an impending plot by the opposition to overthrow President Muhammadu Buhari with the aid of the National Assembly. The grassroots APC chairmen made this revelation at a press conference in Abuja on Thursday, where they strongly accused the PDP of manipulating the National Assembly to remove the current administration from office. Speaking on behalf of the group, national coordinator, Adadu Alegwu, revealed that the opposition had resorted to the legislative arm having failed to legitimately oust President Buhari in the judiciary. The recent upsurge in criminal activities across the country, from Boko Haram/ISWAP attacks to banditry and kidnappings, the group alleged, was the handiwork of the opposition whose desperation for power wasn’t strange. However, its new-found alliance with the National Assembly, according to the APC leaders, was a cause for worry, especially after some of its disloyal members reportedly received humongous sums to betray the party. This script, the group further revealed, was orchestrated by a top-ranking member of the PDP in the National Assembly, backed by a former president, a governor of one of the South-South states, and a perpetual presidential candidate. According to the group, having already penetrated the National Assembly, the PDP sought to win over the service chiefs to its fold. However, their unwillingness to compromise provoked the opposition to unleash mayhem in the country. The Forum of APC LGA chairmen, therefore, said it considered the grand plot as a coup against democracy, and as such discerning members of the general public were placed on notice of the manifestation of the destabilisation plot by the PDP. The group further enjoined Nigerians to be steadfast and resolute in their belief in the sustenance of democracy. “According to credible information reaching the National Forum of APC Local Government Chairmen, the opposition PDP is the brain behind the recent upsurge of criminal activities across the country, manifest in Boko Haram/ISWAP, banditry, and kidnappings. “This they, the PDP, have elected to do in an attempt to pitch the people against the democratically elected government of President Muhammadu Buhari, all in a bid to take the mandate freely given by the people through the backdoor and destabilise the country,” the group said.