The Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi yesterday assured that the electronic ticketing solution being proposed for the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) will take effect soon. Amaechi made the declaration yesterday in Abuja in response to widespread complaints by passengers of alleged ticket hoarding and racketeering by passengers on the Abuja-Kaduna train service. Many passengers complain on a daily basis about ticket racketeering on the train service. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network They specifically want government to ensure the e-ticketing is in place before the commercialisation of the Lagos-Ibadan train which is currently being test-run with free train service. Amaechi, while responding to a complaint by a Twitter user on his handle, assured members of the public that the automation and e-ticketing system would commence soon. “We are aware of the issues and have heard all your complaints about ticketing on the Abuja-Kaduna rail line. We are already working on automation and online ticketing. Please be patient with us as we try to fix this, ASAP,” Amaechi wrote. Reacting to the minister’s comment, many of his followers urged the Federal Government to fast-track the process. It would be recalled that as part of measures to stop the alleged racketeering and improve the efficiency of train services across the country, the NRC has introduced the e-ticketing solutions which would enable people to book for seat on the train online. According to the NRC, the solution being proposed would also decentralise the ticketing system to enable smaller and medium enterprises participate in sales of tickets as the railway modernisation takes centre stage across the country. The process started in August 2017 when the NRC advertised for companies to apply for the ticketing contract following which over 1000 companies applied. However, more than two years after, it has been bogged down by bureaucracy as passengers agitate for the swift implementation of the system to at least, minimise to the barest minimum, if not completely eliminate the alleged racketeering in the train service.