LAGOS – As Nigerians begin the New Year, President Muhammadu Buhari has given citizens a ray of fresh hope, saying that the re­maining part of his administra­tion will focus on taming chal­lenges associated with violent extremism, including the dwin­dling economic fortunes. In his New Year message ti­tled ‘ A Letter From The Pres­ident At New Year’s Nigeria’s Decade’, Buhari admitted that it has not been easy for his govern­ment confronting the plethora of crimes, ranging from violent ex­tremists, cultism and organised criminal networks. On the economy, Buhari noted that his administration would find ways to exploit en­trepreneurial skills and other measures that would promote genuine, balanced growth there­by delivering jobs and rewards industry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said these accounted for why he reviewed the Economic Advisory Council bringing to­gether respected and eminent Nigerians to fashion the way forward. All these formed part of Buhari’s goodwill message to Nigerians as they grace the new year. “We have been fighting on sev­eral fronts: violent extremists, cultists and organised criminal networks. It has not been easy. But as we are winning the war, we also look to the challenge of winning the peace, the recon­struction of lives, communities and markets. “The North East Development Commission will work with local and international stakeholders to help create a new beginning for the North East. The Federal Government will continue to work with state gov­ernors, neighbouring states and our international partners to tackle the root causes of violent extremism and the networks that help finance and organise terror. “Our security forces will re­ceive the best training and mod­ern weaponry, and in turn will be held to the highest standards of professionalism, and respect for human rights. We will use all the human and emerging technological re­sources available to tackle kid­napping, banditry and armed robbery. “We need a democratic government that can guarantee peace and security to realise the full potential of our ingenious, entrepreneurial and hard-work­ing people. Our policies are de­signed to promote genuine, bal­anced growth that delivers jobs and rewards industry. “Our new Economic Advisory Council brings together respect­ed and independent thinkers to advise me on a strategy that champions inclusive and bal­anced growth, and above all fight poverty and safeguard national economic interests. “As we have sat down to cel­ebrate with friends and family over this holiday season, for the first time in a generation our food plates have not all been filled with imports of products we know can easily be produced here at home. The revolution in agriculture is already a reality in all corners of the country. New agreements with Moroc­co, Russia and others will help us access on attractive terms the inputs we need to accelerate the transformation in farming that is taking place,” he stated. The president, however, reiter­ated that his commitment to this inclusive growth was the signing of the African Continental Free Trade Area and the creation of the National Action Committee to oversee its implementation and ensure the necessary safe­guards are in place to allow us to fully capitalise on regional and continental markets. He also commented on the bor­der closure, including the joint land border security exercise, saying it is being implemented to safeguard Nigeria’s economy and security. “No one can doubt that we have been good neigh­bours and good citizens. We have been the helpers and shock-absorbers of the sub-re­gion but we cannot allow our well-planned economic regener­ation plans to be sabotaged. As soon as we are satisfied that the safeguards are adequate, normal cross-border movements will be resumed”, Buhari said. The president also comment­ed on his political journey, say­ing by the year 2023, he would calmly leave the political stage for a successor who must emerge through an electoral process that would be adjudged free, fair and credible. Beyond bowing out of politics in 2023, he said he would ensure smooth political transitions within the ECOWAS regional states. “Elections are the corner­stone of our democracy. I salute the commitment of the millions who voted in peace last February and of those leaders who contest­ed for office vigorously but fairly, submitting to the authority of the electorate, the Independent National Electoral Commission and judicial process. “I understand very well the frustrations our system has in the past triggered. I will be standing down in 2023 and will not be available in any future elections. But I am determined to help strengthen the elector­al process both in Nigeria and across the region, where sever­al ECOWAS members go to the polls this year,” he stated. Buhari equally seized the opportunity to restate his com­mitment to pulling 100 million Nigerians out of the poverty index. He said 2020 would see his administration pursuing re­forms in education, health care and water sanitation through partnerships with relevant stakeholders. He said, “During my Democracy Day speech on June 12, 2019, I promised to lay the enduring foundations for taking a hundred million Nige­rians out of mass poverty over the next 10 years. Today I restate that commit­ment. “We shall continue re­forms in education, health care and water sanitation. I have met international partners such as GAVI, the vaccine alliance, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foun­dation who support our social welfare programmes”. The President also appealed to Nigerians to bear with his administration over some tem­porary pains being experienced across the country due to some major infrastructural projects. He said Nigerians and future generations will benefit im­mensely from the projects when completed. According to him, said many of the projects being undertak­en by his administration are projects that previous adminis­trations failed to do despite the resources at their disposal. Notable among these projects is the Lagos -Ibadan expressway which has been abandoned for years but is currently being rehabilitated by the Buhari ad­ministration. Others according to the President are the Second Niger Bridge, Abuja-Kano high­way, Lagos to Kano rail line and others. While appealing to Nigerians to be patient, the President said the projects when completed will positively impact on business op­erations across the country. His words “Already, we are making key infrastructure in­vestments to enhance our ease of doing business. On transpor­tation, we are making significant progress on key roads such as the Second Niger Bridge, Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and the Abuja – Kano highway. 2020 will also see tangible progress on the Lagos to Kano Rail line”. “Through Executive Order 007, we are also using alternative funding programmes in collabo­ration with private sector part­ners to fix strategic roads such as the Apapa-Oworonshoki Ex­press way. Abuja and Port Har­court have new international airport terminals, as will Kano and Lagos in 2020”. “When completed, all these projects will positively impact business operations in the coun­try. These projects are not small and do not come without some temporary disruption; we are do­ing now what should have been done a long time ago. I thank you for your patience and look forward to the dividends that we and future generations will long enjoy” he said. While restating his commit­ment not to seek reelection in 2023, Buhari said his primary concern is the safety and secu­rity of the country, especially from terrorists and other crimi­nal elements. “As Commander-in-Chief, my primary concern is the security of the nation and the safety of our citizens. When I assumed of­fice in May 2015 my first task was to rally our neighbours so that we could confront Boko Haram on a coordinated regional basis. Chaos is not a neighbour any of us hope for”. “We have been fighting on sev­eral fronts: violent extremists, cultists and organised criminal networks. It has not been easy. But as we are winning the war, we also look to the challenge of winning the peace, the recon­struction of lives, communities and markets. The North East Development Commission will work with local and internation­al stakeholders to help create a new beginning for the North East”. “The Federal Government will continue to work with State Gov­ernors, neighbouring states and our international partners to tackle the root causes of violent extremism and the networks that help finance and organise terror. Our security forces will receive the best training and modern weaponry, and in turn will be held to the highest standards of professionalism, and respect for human rights”. “We will use all the human and emerging technological re­sources available to tackle kid­napping, banditry and armed robbery”. 