BISI ADESOYE ILESA – Four years after allegedly trading on human parts, a suspect, Alfa Ibrahim, is yet to regain freedom or being tried in the offence he allegedly committed DAILY INDEPENDENT has gathered. A source in Ilesa Prison said the suspect had allegedly killed his house boy simply identified as Lukman by dismembering his body, arranged them in a bag and was heading to the point of sale at Atakumosa Market when he was apprehended by the police. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The source further hinted that he was charged to court by the police for the alleged offence and was remanded in Ilesa Prison till date and since then even the family members are no longer hearing from him nor any development on the matter. The prison source told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the duty of the prison was to make any suspect in their custody available when needed in court. A frontline Muslim leader at ilesa who preferred anonymity said Alfa Ibrahim was never part of them, adding that Muslim religion doesn’t permit killing for rituals or for any of such purpose, hinting that Alfa Ibrahim just bear that name to cover up his crimes. He said Muslims all over the world are known to be peaceful, law-abiding but not ritualists. It would be recalled that the suspect was arrested in a bush near his house at Oke-Opo, Ilesa East Local Government Council Area with a bag allegedly containing pieces of the body of Lukman for sales at Atakumosa to his customers. However one of the two hands of Lukman was being exhibited by the accused. Independent investigation revealed that no governor in Nigeria was ready to sign death warrant to execute death penalty. The only governor who signed death penalty was Adams Oshinomole in 1929, while he was the governor of Edo State but his actions was trailed by condemnation by Nigerians and beyond. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, a legal practitioner, Boye Uzamot posited that should a governor refuse to sign death warrant on accused committed to death by the court, the accused should be released under the prerogative of mercy or the Federal Government should enact a law forbidding execution of people in Nigeria.