Mr. Sakariyat Mabro, the South-West Vice-chairman of the Traditional Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (TMPN), has called on the federal government to invest in herbal medicine, as an alternative source of generating revenue for the country. Mabro, who spoke with newsmen in Osogbo on Thursday, said the prospect of traditional medicine in terms of revenue generation was more than that of crude oil if properly exploited. He, however, said that the total concentration on the oil sector had weakened the consciousness of looking inwards for alternative means of generating revenue in the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mabro said that countries such as India and China strengthened their Gross National Product (GNP) and terms of trade through heavy investment in herbal medicine. He said that the comparative cost advantage of Nigeria in the traditional medical sub-sector was far more than that of India and China. According to him, traditional medical practitioners have solutions to thousands of ailment plaguing millions of people around the world, which could generate huge revenue for Nigeria. Mabro noted that Nigeria was at a vantage position in Africa to dominate every sector going by her huge natural endowment and millions of creative minds. Besides, he called on the federal government to hasten the passage of the long-awaited Herbal Practitioners Bill, so as to provide more opportunities for herbal practice in Nigeria. “I believe herbal medicine in Nigeria needs to be promoted by government at all levels. “It has been proven beyond a reasonable doubt that our traditional cure system has the capacity to solve a lot of medical problems confronting people around the world. “The inherent capacity of our traditional medicine to cure several ailments around the globe should be optimally explored and transformed into huge foreign earnings. “Many Asian countries as India and China are generating millions of dollars from exporting their traditional medical products across the world; Nigeria is really lagging behind in that wise. “Government can do a lot better by investing in the sector and providing credit facilities for its practitioners to improve on their products through research, even as we hope that the  Bill will be passed in earnest,” he said.