ABUJA – Governors of the 36 states of the federation under the aegis of Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) have resolved to collaborate with Federal Government to achieve the 70 per cent national broadband Penetration by the end of 2020. Mr. Kayode Fayemi, the Chairman of the NGF, made this known, in a communiqué, after the January session of the NGF monthly meeting in Abuja, late Wednesday night. Fayemi, who is also the Ekiti state governor, said the state governments are collaborating with federal ministry of communications and digital economy to developed state level digital strategies and harmonise all right of way charges across state in order to achieve the objective. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the NGF made the resolution after receiving an update from the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, on new national digital economy strategy. According to the NGF Chairman, the minister, in the company of the Executive Vice Chainnan/CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Garba, solicited the support of states on the development of business regulations around right of way and multiple taxations, around skills and innovations, infrastructure and indigenous content promotion. “Governors expressed their readiness to collaborate with federal ministry of communications and digital economy to developed state level digital strategies and committed to harmonise all right of way charges across state to achieve the 70 per cent national broadband Penetration by the end of 2020. “Members also invited the ministry to take full advantage of the universe service Provision Fund USPS which was set up to facility investment in critical communications infrastructure across part of the country not considered commercially viable” he said. Continuing, he added that: “Governors agreed to carry out immediate actions on the implementation of the Seattle Declaration including the constitution of a multi-sectoral Primary Health Care Under One Roof (PHCUOR) implementation committee, quarterly review of PHC performance in State Executive Council meetings, review of States‘ performance on the Abuja Commitment and organisation of advocacy meetings with traditional and religious leaders. The Chairman declared that the issue around reconciliation  for budget support facilities, have been handled, stressing that governors have come up with their own recommendations of special fund generally not just budget support facilities. He, however, pointed out that the amount will continue to be review, adding that the states ought to be paying a lot less than what they are paying. “On budget support facilities specifically, states are already honouring in their obligations. They are already paying back what is owned to the federal government. The question of the amount is something that we will continue to review. It is our view that we should be paying a lot less what we are paying but that is something that has not been addressed yet. But that has not stopped us from honouring the obligation to the federal government that lend the resources to us at the time that they did. “On the epidemic that have happened in one or two states, Ondo in the South West and Kano in the north; well this is the period where we have an upsurg, particularly of lassa fever. I believe all our state are taking precautionary measures to address this in conjunction with the federal ministry of health and the National Centre for disease control (NCDC). We are working to ensure that this does not spread any further that they have at the moment” stated the chairman.