ASABA – A 55-year old commercial bus driver from Anambra has been found dead in a hotel at Ibusa, Oshimili North Local Government Area of Delta State after a sex romp with a single mother of three. Investigation revealed that the deceased was accompanied by a lady into a hotel along Ibusa bypass, less than two poles away from the Ibusa Police Divisional Headquarters. Our source who spoke under anonymity said the deceased had consumed a high number of energy drink before taking the woman to the hotel in the late hours of Thursday. Meanwhile, investigation revealed that the woman who went into hiding after she escaped from the hotel was apprehended by officers of Ibusa Police Division. When contacted, the Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya confirmed the incident, saying that, it is true, the corpse has been removed and investigation is ongoing. Meanwhile, an unidentified person has been left with severe injuries after he fell into an uncovered manhole behind Lion House, Nnebisi Road, Oshimili south local government area, Delta state. The incident occurred Friday while the person was trying to connect Jesus Saves road from the popular Nnebisi road. Mr. Victor Ojei, of the Young Nigerian Rights Organization who took a swipe on the Delta State Capital Territory Development Agency’s Director-General (DG), Evangelist Mrs. Onyemaechi Joan Mrakpor, said the DG has derailed from her primary assignment of protecting lives and property. “Delta State Capital Territory Development Agency will not see these manholes all over Asaba walkways to cover and protect citizens lives. They rather choose to inflict pains on the masses”, he alleged. He noted further that the actions of the agency remains a “misplaced priorities”, reiterating that the primary aim of government is to protect lives of citizens and properties. He disclosed that he and his team have been tagged as an enemy of government following his position. “By speaking these truth always, they now see us as enemies of government. But we are not moved or disturbed because government cannot do it alone that is where we as civil society group fill the lacuna or space”, he stated.