U.S.
Consul General Claire Pieran­gelo yesterday reiterated the impor­tance of
Nigeria’s entrepreneurs to the continued growth of economies in the West
African sub-region and the prosperity of the continent. Speaking
at a one-day capaci­ty-building seminar for the first co­hort of U.S. sponsored
Tony Elumelu Foundation alumni, Ms. Pierangelo noted that population trends in
Af­rica’s largest economy will not only mean that Nigeria could become the
world’s third most populous coun­try by 2050, but events in the country could
have wide-ranging global reper­cussions going forward. “If
Nigeria is successful, it’s extremely young population will represent a
tremendous source of productive labor and an extremely attractive market for a
variety of products and services. Its success will be Africa’s success and the
world will also benefit from the creativity and resourcefulness of its people,”
Pierangelo observed. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “That is
why the government of the United States cares so deeply about supporting
entrepreneurship in Nigeria. Right now, according to sources, small to medium
sized enterprises run by entrepreneurs create about eighty –five percent of all
jobs in this country. We are there­fore, committed to working with you and our
local partners, including the Tony Elumelu Foundation, to help you maximize
opportunities to use your drive and skills to create a better Nigeria for all
of us,” she added. Ms.
Ifeanyinwa Ugochukwu, the Chief Executive Officer of the Tony Elumelu
Foundation, who expressed the organization’s appreciation for the partnership
with the U.S. Con­sulate General, highlighted the im­portance of strategic
alliances for the country’s sustained economic development. “It is clear that development aid does not solve
economic problems, handouts never work in the long-term and in no developed
country does government shoulder econom­ic burdens alone. On the other hand,
partnerships such as this support the job-creating, solution-driven mental­ity
which Nigeria needs to lift itself up,” she pointed out.