Benin – Dibai P. Yakadi, the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 5, Benin City, Edo State, on Wednesday declared that the Nigeria Police was not unaware of the current security challenges facing the country and will continue to rise up to its responsibilities and ensure the menace of criminals are curtailed. The AIG said curtailment of these criminal elements requires the cooperation of officers and men of police who are expected to key into the IGP’s vision, which is anchored on professionalism, community partnership, intelligence-led policing, respect to fundamental human rights and diligent prosecution. According to him, the police will continue to rise up to its responsibilities to ensure that kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, abuse of human rights and other heinous crimes are curtailed. AIG Yakadi, who stated this in an address delivered at the commencement of a two-day stepdown training of trainers’ workshop on the Administration of Criminals Justice Act (ACJA) 2015, organised by CLEEN Foundation, a non-governmental organization, said: “As the police is closer to members of the public, there is need to respect the rights of the citizens. “The Nigeria Police, in line with the directives of Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), is expected to allow all Chief Magistrates within the state to visit all the police detention centres to ensure that no suspect is detained more than what is stipulated by law. “The Nigeria Police must, therefore, obey such instructions and work closely with the magistrates, avoid illegal detentions, illegal duties and other vices that will tarnish the image of the Force”, he said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While stating that officers and men of the police must obey the instructions and vision of the IGP, Yakadi said: “We are all aware that the IGP has reviewed the Force Order 237 to accommodate the global best practices in respect to fundamental human rights and as such, we must, therefore, be conversant with the revised FO 237.” He also said that the two-day training programme is aimed at re-awakening the consciousness of police officers to understanding the roles and responsibilities of police on key provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015. He said: “Section 4 of the Police Act and Regulation spelt out the duties of a police officer which include: Prevention and detection of crime, apprehension of offenders, preservation of law and order, protection of lives and property, as well as due enforcement of all laws and regulations with which they are directly charged.” The police is also required to perform such military duties within or outside Nigeria as may be required of them by or under the authority of this Act”, he further declared. CLEEN Foundation, organiser of the workshop, in an address read by Ruth Olofin, Programme Manager on behalf of the Executive Director of the NGO, Dr. Olugbuo said the ACJA 2015 has brought fundamental reforms to the nation’s criminal justice system. Dr. Olugbuo pointed out that the act was designed to not only preserve and strengthen existing legal frameworks but also to enhance the efficiency of the institutions within the criminal justice system and the protection of human rights of citizens – suspects, defendants and victims. “The legislative purpose of the ACJA, 2015 is to have a nation-wide application, thus, to introduce a national criminal procedure law that will regulate the investigation and prosecution of offences throughout the federation. “The Act, being an Act of the National Assembly is only applicable to the Federal Capital  Territory and to Federal courts and other federal institutions including the  Nigeria Police. “However many states are beginning to adopt the Act. Presently, 26 states have already adopted the Act, including Lagos, Anambra and Ekiti States which enacted the Law before 2015. Other states that have adopted the Act include Enugu, Rivers, Delta, Kaduna, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Ondo, Oyo and Kogi, Ogun, Plateau, Bayelsa, Edo, Benue, Adamawa, Jigawa, Nassarawa, Bauchi, Kano, Yobe, Kwara and Osun States”. End 