A nursing mother simply identified as Mama Ebuka and mother of four children, was on Monday discovered dead in a gutter in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital. The deceased, until her death, was delivered of a baby girl on January 1, 2020. Her lifeless body was discovered half-burnt inside a gutter, around Enugu North Transport Company park, along Afikpo/Abakaliki Road. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network DAILY INDEPENDENT further gathered that the woman, a Catholic, left home for a morning Mass last Sunday, but surprisingly did not return that day. Worried by her disappearance, her husband reported the development at the state’s Police Headquarters, before her dead body was found. When our correspondent visited No. 14, Awolowo Street where the woman resided with the husband on Wednesday morning, it was discovered that their family apartment was under lock and key. But a close family source who preferred to be anonymous, told our reporter that the woman’s family members had taken her corpse to her village in Izzi Local Government Area of the state, for burial. The source said the cause of the woman’s death was yet to be ascertained. “This woman, simply called Mama Ebuka, prepared on Sunday morning and said she was going for a morning Mass at the Chapel. She is a Catholic. There is a Chapel at Saint Theresa’s and Saint John’s Catholic churches. She didn’t come back. Nobody saw her again, until Monday morning, when her dead body was discovered. “She just put to bed. If I’m not wrong, she put to bed on January 1, 2020. She didn’t go with the baby. She has four children. There is no point wanting to speak to any of the family members, because they have traveled home to bury her,” the source said. The Ebonyi State Police Spokesperson, DSP Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident, adding that the matter was being investigated by the command to unravel the cause of the woman’s death. Odah described the woman’s death as unfortunate and urged the public to always avail the police with information on happenings in their neighborhood. The Police spokesperson said, “We are aware of the matter and police are investigating it. The woman was half-burnt when she was found in the gutter and I think the family saw no need of keeping the corpse for too long. She was killed and half-burnt. It was recorded that she was staying at Awolowo Street, Abakaliki. “We have not been able to actually unravel the real cause of her death and this is why we call on members of the public to avail us with any useful information that would help us to do proper investigation. “We specially call on those who know her very well, including those who stay close to where her body was found, to give us information. We learnt that she was found in a gutter around Enugu North Mass Transit Park, at VANCO area. Those with useful information should not hesitate to give the police such information, in order for us to do real and serious investigation on the matter. “So we appeal to groups or individuals to help us in this investigation, either by sending text messages to our numbers. They may not really come up openly to drop such pieces of information. Also, we don’t divulge the names and contacts of those who give us information; we have been covering people.