ILORIN – Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has said that it has commenced an investigation on a list it recovered from Nigerian women who traveled to Lebanon for employment purpose. The state Commandant of the NSCDC, Bello Ale, said the list which comprises 27 of the women was revealed in a document retrieved from the three suspects arrested in connection with the alleged inhuman treatment of some Nigerian women who traveled to Lebanon including Ms. Omolola Ajayi and Mrs. Gloria Taye Bright whose videos of being subjected to human slavery went viral in the country. Ale disclosed this on Tuesday in Ilorin while handing over Bright who was repatriated to the country from Lebanon in the early hours of Tuesday to the leaders of her home town, Eruku, in Kwara State led by the President of Eruku Progressive Union, Shola Daniels. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The NSCDC boss said that the repatriation of Gloria was one of the successes recorded by the security agency in its investigation of reported slavery Nigerian women were being made to suffer in Lebanon. He said her reparation was achieved through Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission and an NGO, Phemnick Life Support. Ale while stating that the NSCDC was happy on the success made said, “Without the discovery and repatriation of Gloria, we would not have discovered where Omolola Ajayi was.” He said the arrest of the three suspects and the recovery of the documents containing the list of the 27 women who traveled to Lebanon through their agency “exposed a lot about the deal.” The NSCDC boss while disclosing that the three suspects arrested included a Lebanese Wasit Muhammad, 63, Adetunji Sanusi, 33, and a lawyer, Tunde Awwal, 27, said the agency was still searching for another member of the gang identified as Joseph who was at large. Gloria Taye Bright, 33, who said that she traveled to Lebanon in October 2019, stated that she was recruited in Ilorin, Kwara State to work as an English teacher in Lebanon on a monthly salary of $1,000. Taye who hailed from Eruku in Ekiti Local Government Area of Kwara State said that her job was changed to house-help when she got to Lebanon stated that she performed all sorts of menial jobs for her master. A holder of National Diploma (ND) in Accounting said, “There is no job in Lebanon and there is no Dollar in that country but they tricked us to the place and made us to believe that there is work there.” She advised Nigerian women to beware of the travelling agents who lied to them that there are jobs in foreign countries. National President of Eruku Progressive Union, Daniels, expressed gratitude to the NSCDC and other security agencies that worked for the location of Taye and the NGO as well as the Federal Government that made the repatriation possible.