LAGOS – Following the recent release of Omoyele Sowore and Sambo Dasuki, there have been insinuations that the Federal Government caved in due to local and international pressures mounted on it over its alleged poor human rights abuses and disobedience to rule of law. However, the government, through the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), debunked such assertions, saying the release of the duo was on compassionate grounds. But, human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), faulted the minister, pointing out that indeed, the government was pressurized to release the duo as their detention was illegal. Omoyele Sowore, the National Chairman and presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) and the Convener of Coalition for Revolution (CORE), organisers of #RevolutionNow mass protests, was arrested by the Department of State Service (DSS) in Lagos on August 3, 2019, on the eve of the nationwide protests for better Nigeria, which were to commence on August 5. He was taken to Abuja where he was initially put incommunicado by the security agency. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As pressure mounted over the DSS action, Sowore was later arraigned before Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court, Abuja, where he was slammed with charges bothering on treasonable felony, money laundering and cyberstalking. He was however granted bail under very tough conditions. Sowore, an activists and journalist, is the publisher of Sahara Reporters, a popular and influential online medium based in United States of America. He ran for the 2019 presidential election under his party, AAC’s banner and came third following the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who came second, and President Buhari, the eventual winner, among others, according to the declaration by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In one of the court appearances, after Sowore had fulfilled the tough conditions and was granted bail, in a move to rearrest him, the DSS operatives stormed the court. As Sowore, his lawyers and supporters were emerging from the court, the security men moved into the court, which was still in session, and wrestled Sowore into submission and took him away amidst protests by his supporters, not minding that he was still on bail. In a video that went viral, the security operatives were seen wrestling Sowore to the floor in the court hall. The judge, seeing the violation of the hallowed court, hurriedly ran to her chambers for cover in surprise and awe. The action of security operatives led to a worldwide outrage and uproar over the human rights abuses and lack of respect for rule of law by the Nigerian government. Sowore, it would be recalled, had earlier been declared a Prisoner of Conscience by the Amnesty International (AI), the global human rights police. Sambo Dasuki, former National Security Adviser, had been in detention since the early days of the President Muhammadu Buhari over alleged illegal spending of funds under his custody. Despite several court rulings ordering his release on bail, the government failed to do so. Following outcries for his release, like Sowore, the Amnesty International also declared Dasuki a Prisoner of Conscience. However, following alleged pressure mounted on the Federal Government by the human rights community, the media as well as the United States Congress, the Nigerian Senate became interested and instructed its committee on human rights to investigate the matter. The National Judicial Commission (NJC) also became interested on the case. All these put Malami under heat. The minister, seeing that the national and international dimension Sowore’s issue had taken, decided to take over the case from the DSS. Following reported meeting between officials of the American Embassy, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Malami, Sowore was released by the DSS on the instruction of the minister. Sowore’s associate, Olawale Bakare, was also released. Former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd), who had been in detention since the early days of Buhari administration, was also released. However, Malami, in a public statement, claimed that Sowore and the others were release on compassionate ground. Malami said they were released because the government decided to comply with orders granting them bail. Dasuki, it would be recalled, was granted bail several times by the courts, but the government refused to release him. Malami said the release of Sowore after two orders granting him bail in September and November 2019, and Dasuki, which came after about four years of government disobeying at least five separate court orders granting bail to the ex- NSA, was a demonstration of government’s commitment to rule of law. The minister said their release was not due to any domestic or international pressure. According to him, “The only reasons for the release of Omoyele Sowore and Sambo Dasuki revolved around our commitment to the rule of law, obedience to court orders and compassionate grounds. “It is important to understand the fact that as far as the law is concerned and in relation to the Nigerian justice system, one has multiple options after a court has ruled on a matter.” It would be noted that for about four years of detaining Dasuki, there was no appeal filed by the government against any of the five court orders granting him bail. The government did not also file an appeal against the bail granted Sowore in September before his arraignment on charges of treasonable felony, among others, and in November after his arraignment on the charges. Malami maintained that the two men were released not due to domestic and international pressure, specifically denying receiving any letter from the American lawmakers. He said the government had the option of continuing to detain them while prosecuting appeals against the court orders granting them bail. The minister’s aide said: “Malami repudiated the claim that his office has received any formal communication from any American Senator on the matter and that the discussion during the visit of the American Ambassador to Nigeria at the event of the submission of letter of credence was not in any way connected to the accused persons.” He quoted Malami as saying, “Even if we received any communication from them, that will never be the basis on the part of the Federal Government to obey or disobey court orders emanating from Nigeria.” Malami was quoted to have said that each of the cases of Dasuki and Sowore was treated on their individual merit “and not in relation to one another or any other factors while describing as blatant falsehood the claims that Dasuki was detained for scoring certain primordial sentiments”. Mr Femi Falana (SAN), Sowore’s lawyer, in response, said Malami ought to apologise to Sowore and Dasuki for their belated release from illegal detention. Falana, who spoke through an open letter he addressed to Malami, maintained that no authority had the power to detain a suspect for more than 48 hours without the backing of a court order. He said: “It is submitted, without any fear of contradiction, that under the current human rights regime no authority has the power to detain any person beyond 48 hours in any part of Nigeria without a court order. “For the avoidance of doubt, the government is not permitted to refuse to comply with the order of bail under the pretext of defending the security of the nation. “Even under the defunct military dictatorship, detaining authorities were not authorised to incarcerate any person for ‘security reasons’ in defiance of court orders,” even as he dismissed Malami’s contention that the two men were released on compassionate grounds. Interestingly, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has urged the administration to respect the rule of law. NBA, which used the opportunity of the New Year Message by President Muhammadu Buhari, lamented the government’s poor human rights records and disobedience to rule of law by the administration. Kunle Edun, the NBA National Publicity Secretary, in response to Buhari’s message, said among other things, that the president should exhibit democratic leadership in the New Year. According to the NBA spokesperson, “There are many challenges confronting our nation. 2019 had a lot of hiccups and we hope that 2020 will be better. The government has to accept the fact that, without the rule of law, democracy cannot grow.”