Lagos State Police Command has arrested one Reverend and Mrs. Adeleke Adebanjo of Anglican Church, Oko Oba area of Lagos State for allegedly assaulting and inflicting various degrees of injury on a nine-year-old girl (names withheld) who was employed as their domestic staff. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the suspects were arrested following a report by a concerned neighbour to the police about the way the Rev Adeleke and his wife were maltreating the minor. “On January 6, 2020, she put a call through to ‘Stop The Abuse Foundation,’ a non-government organisation with the sole aim of fighting human rights abuses, to inform them of how the minor was being abused by the couple for the past two years that she had been living with them,” police source said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The neighbour who spoke on the condition of anonymity cited instances where one of the suspect’s dogs bit the victim on her breast. “There was a time one of the dogs bit the girl, the couple who claimed to be Priests in the Anglican Church refused to take the maid to the hospital for treatment. “This inhumane treatment being meted out on daily basis to the minor is becoming unbearable hence Reverend Adeleke Adebanjo and his wife needed to be reported to the appropriate quarters,” she said. It was gathered that based on the information and evidences gathered by Barrister Toyin Taiwo-Ojo of the human rights foundation, the matter was immediately reported at the police station and the suspects were promptly arrested for alleged child abuse. Barrister Taiwo-Ojo who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT stated further that injuries all over the nine-year-old maid’s body was enough evidence of how she had been living in hell since she started living with the priest two years ago. “There were scars all over her body from several previous beatings. The recent scars on her hand were occasioned by the Adebanjo’s   90-year-old grandmother who allegedly pressed the girl’s hand with hot electric iron as punishment. It is also heartbreaking and disheartening that test results from Mirabel Medical Centre shows that the poor girl has also been abused sexually both vaginally and anally,” Barrister Taiwo-Ojo revealed. The victim narrated that she became the couple’s maid with the help of her mother. “I am the last child of my parents. I was brought here two years ago by my parents friend with the promise that I would be enrolled in school but unfortunately the woman never showed up again to check on me. They did not enroll me in school as they promised; I cannot go out or go to church with them. I am always at home to do the house chores and if I mistakenly do anything in error, I receive the beating of my life. That is why I have several scars on my body as you can see. “My daily chores include changing the diaper and cleaning of grandma. I feed and take care of the two dogs in the house,” the girl narrated. In their confessional statements made at Lagos State Police Command Gender Unit, Ikeja, 67 years old couples Rev. and Mrs. Adeleke Adebanjo claimed that they were disciplining the minor because she was too playful. The convener of Stop The Abuse Foundation, Barr. Toyin Ndidi Taiwo-Oko commended the quick response from the  State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, the Gender Unit, Ikeja, Mrs Sanusi Shade, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Advocacy for Children and Vulnerable Persons Group and the Stop The Abuse Foundation team. Meanwhile, the Police spokesman, Lagos State Command Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Bala Elkana, confirmed the arrest of the priest. He said, “Investigation is ongoing, the suspects will be charged to court as soon as the investigation is concluded.