LAGOS – Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, former governor of Anambra State has said that President Muhammadu Buhari has continuously pushed the Igbo people out of Nigeria, maintaining that members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) are only reacting to the push. Okwadike had in an interview with Daily Independent stressed that IPOB wouldn’t be quitting Nigeria because it did not want to be in Nigeria but were merely reacting to negative things done to the Igbo in Nigeria and the elders like himself and others. He stressed that and they thought the Igbo shouldn’t rush out of Nigeria, pointing out that something was going to happen. He said that 2023 was coming, and there would be presidential election, whether in 2023 or it comes earlier. He said that the Igbo had decided to kneel down for the North, South-West, South-South and the Middle Belt. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We will also unite ourselves so that people don’t say that we are the cause of our problem. If after doing all that we are expected to do and because we are Igbo, Nigerians say they wouldn’t want Igbo to be president, then that would be the final push,” he said. The former governor said that South-East, had no good federal roads, maintaining that the government of President Buhari had over stayed its usefulness. He said that there had not been anytime that it worked, stressing that in the first term, Nigerians were promised things that didn’t happen. He said that as someone from the South-East, he was an advocate for one Nigeria, even more than those in the North, pointing out that the government of President Buhari had been pushing the Igbo people out of Nigeria, with great effort in making the people feel not welcome. “In business, it is like pull Igbo down. It started long ago. Ibeto was prominent cement dealer in Nigeria, the federal government struggled to crumble the business of Ibeto and it succeeded. Ifeanyi Uba helped Nigeria when the rest of the oil dealers did not want to supply oil, and what did he get? He was incarcerated by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Innoson motors boss was also prosecuted.” “Recently, traders importing containers came to me, requested that I helped them beg the government, customs officials, to sell back their seized containers to them instead of selling them to Northerners, and they would go back to buy from them. The problem has been so much. The killings are too many, people went for memorial service of those who died during the war, which was the purpose of the meeting in Aba and Onitsha, and they were killed. The most secured place in the country at the moment is the South East and what are we doing with heavy presence of the military,” he said.