LAGOS – Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor has called for collaboration among the relevant stakeholders on how to end the incessant vandalisation of pipelines in the State. He made the call on Tuesday while speaking at Abule Egba, where the latest explosion occurred on Sunday, stressing that the State Government, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and relevant security agencies must put in place, measures that would deter these criminals from perpetuating their evils. Hamzat who was accompanied by some state officials to the scene of the incident said that such collaboration has become imperative, in view of lost lives and properties occasioned by the handiwork of vandals, whose activities can bring tears and sorrows to the people of Lagos State. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He described the fire incident as very unfortunate development, while assuring that the government would fish out the perpetrators of the evil act and punish them according to the laws of the land. He thereby called on the residents to be more vigilant by reporting any suspected moves by the vandals to the appropriate authorities before they carry out their evil acts. According to him, “Please, endeavour to call security people on any of free toll emergency numbers for appropriate responses to forestall any form of vandalisation of our infrastructure, we need the help of the community to provide information, the people doing these evil acts are not ghosts, they are human beings and can be caught. We must apprehend them. We will work with security operatives to catch them and make examples,” he said. The Deputy Governor while commiserating with those affected by the fire incidence, said that the state government will meet with the families who are affected by the inferno and see what can be done to ameliorate their losses, adding that government will support the community in whatever they are doing to ensure the safety of their lives and properties. Dr. Augustine Arogundade, Chairman, Agbado-Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area while briefing the Deputy Governor during the assessment, stated that the explosion was as a result of vandalisation of the petroleum pipeline of the NNPC by vandals on Saturday. He thereby called on the NNPC to institute a taskforce to monitor and police the pipeline against vandalism. Engr. Olatunde Akinsanya, Director of Operations, Lagos State Emergency Management Authority, (LASEMA) also, speaking at the site of the incident, noted that the agency has commenced holistic enumeration to ascertain the impact of the fire outbreak in collaboration with the Agbado-Oke-Odo LCDA to know the number of people and families displaced as well as property lost. He said that the Director-General of LASEMA has directed preparation to receive the displaced people at two of the relief camps at Igando and Agbowa.