LAGOS – Musliu Ayinde Akinsanya, Chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State branch, has been commended for his wisdom in restoring peace to the union. A stakeholder in the union from Olowogbowo Lagos Island, Isiaka Emmanuel, (aka Babanla Apongbon), who gave the commendation in a chat with newsmen at the weekend, also debunked allegation that Akinsanya was biased against some groups. He explained that after a security meeting with the state government and the Commissioner of Police recently, Akinsanya popularly known as MC Oluomo called a peace meeting with stakeholders from Lagos Island where the matter was resolved amicably. He said that at the meeting, MC Oluomo called on Azeez Lawal (aka Kunle Poly) to point at trouble makers from the area which he did. Then, the chairman also asked Yusuf Aweniya (aka Boboto) to also point out known trouble makers from his own faction and all accused persons were handed over to the police for further investigation. This, according to Babanla Apongbon, was a God-given wisdom, which was explored by MC Oluomo to resolve the crisis. Corroborating Apongbon’s statement, Fatah Okoosi-Otun, also revealed that peace has returned to NURTW in Lagos Island in the last five days after the peace meeting. “We greatly commend our Chairman, MC Oluomo, for dishing out the God-given wisdom to resolve the crisis. We all can see that NURTW Lagos Island is now united and remains one family without any faction,” Fatah Okoosi-Otun said. He enjoined members to always take advice of the state chairman that peace and unity should be their watch words always. Meanwhile, some community and religious leaders in Lagos Island have advised members of the union to allow peace to reign in the community. Chief  Imam of Nawair -ur -deen Society of Nigeria, Lagos Branch, Sheik Sheu Abdul Mojeed, gave the advice during the new year prayer organised by the union, just as he prayed for forgiveness for those who died innocently among their members and admonised those alive to allow peace to reign in the community. “The nature of your work doesn’t call for violence because people have been doing this job many years back without disturbing the peace of the community. Why must your own be different? Please find ways to contribute your quota towards development of your community instead of causing trouble,”  Sheik Abdul Mojeed advised.