LAGOS – Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor of Lagos State, on Tuesday, signed the 2020 budget of N1.168 trillion. This was done a day after members of the state House of Assembly passed the Appropriation Bill. The passage followed the presentation of a report by the Joint Committee of the House on Appropriation and Finance, by the Chairman, Committee on Budget and Economic Planning, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu. The House passed the appropriation bill with Recurrent Expenditure standing at N457, 528, 914, 805 billion and Capital Expenditure at N711, 032, 979, 185 billion, totaling a budget size of N1, 168, 561, 893, 990 trillion. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The approved budget contained 78 amendments as recommended by the joint committees and approved by the House through a voice vote conducted by Speaker Mudashiru Obasa. Sanwo-Olu gave his assent at a short ceremony in Alausa, where he pledged that the state would be open and accountable in the implementation of the budget. At the event attended by members of the Executive Council and House of Assembly, the governor described the ratified expenditure as a “New Year present” to all residents of the state, saying his administration’s efforts to deliver a ‘Greater Lagos’ had gained additional momentum. According to him, “Now is the time for members of the State Executive Council, who will be implementing this budget, to demonstrate their tenacity to the vision of achieving Lagos of our dreams. We must display the conviction that we can do the job given to us by all residents of Lagos. “With the speedy passage of the budget, the responsibilities cut out for us have gained additional momentum and the effort to achieve our development agenda has just started, because this is the first budget this administration will be implementing in full cycle. We are hopeful that we would have improved the quality of life of residents at the end of the budget year.” The governor assured that there would be accountability and transparency in the implementation of the approved financial plan, pledging that his government would deploy the state’s resources responsibly to ensure the budget is implemented up to about 100 per cent performance. Sanwo-Olu praised members of the Assembly for accelerated passage of the budget, saying the legislators, by their action, aligned themselves with the overall interest of residents. He said: “The happiness of the speedy passage of the budget is not for all of us in government, but for all the 22 million Lagosians on whose behalf we act and take the decision to make the state habitable and developed. “When we fix the road, when we make the drainage flow better, when we turn around the services of our hospitals for good, when we ensure Lagos becomes a choice destination for investments and tourism, when we fully implement the budget, we would have given the people the voice to express their happiness.” The Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, hailed the governor and his team for timely transmission of the budget to the House for legislative scrutiny. The Speaker noted that the Assembly was thorough in the process of scrutinising the budget. He added that the House did not substantially cut down the expenses contained in the original document, because “the budget cuts across all sectors of the state’s economy.” Obasa pleaded with members of the executive to leave no stone unturned in the implementation of the budget, saying the expenditure must touch the lives of the people. Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu, said members worked round the clock to ensure the budget was passed in line with the directive of the Speaker. He said: “During the budget defence, members of the cabinet were cooperative and provided required insights that led to the speedy completion of the work. The details of the budget spoke heart of the governor’s development agenda.” Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Sam Egube, observed that the speedy passage of the budget was not without challenges and disagreements, but said the acceleration of the process indicated “cooperation and smooth working relationship” between the executive and the legislature. With the budget now passed into law and signed by the governor, Lagosians are expectant that the state government will swing into action by fulfilling some of the promises made during the electioneering campaigns. Before the exit of Akinwunmi Ambode’s administration, the immediate-past governor of the state, most roads in Lagos State were in very bad shape and some projects were left uncompleted. When the administration of Ambode came on board in 2015, it failed to complete the projects that were left uncompleted by the Babatunde Fashola’s administration. Ambode was said to be playing politics, which was why he refused to finish the uncompleted projects started by the Fashola’s administration. Sanwo-Olu at the inauguration of the Igando Housing Estate started by former Governor Babatunde Fashola under the Lagos Homes Ownership Mortgage Scheme in September 2019, said he prioritised the completion of the estate to recover state’s resources committed to the project. He said: “Today, history is being made as we commission a housing estate named after an icon, a role model and the first Executive Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. Among his many sterling achievements, Alhaji Jakande’s indelible legacy in the provision of mass housing in Lagos still remains our guiding light. “It is instructive to note that the completion and the official commissioning of Lateef Kayode Jakande Garden Estate in Igando today is a testimony to our resolve to deliver on the pledge to complete all critical projects inherited from the last administration. “I am excited today because, within 100 days, this is the third time I am coming to this facility to ensure it is delivered and put into use. With the completion of the Estate, we have prevented government’s resources from being wasted.” Some of the notable projects left uncompleted by the administration of Fashola include the Blue Line Rail project; N50 billion Adiyan Waterworks Phase 2 project; ‘Lagos HOMS; Ilubrin Housing project; to mention but a few. Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), had in an interview with our correspondent, advised Sanwo-Olu not to embark on new projects until he has completed all the projects undertaken by the Ambode administration. He also asked Sanwo-Olu to emulate President Muhammadu Buhari who has commissioned majority of the projects left behind by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. According to Sagay, “My advice to the governor-elect of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is that he should complete all on-going projects in Lagos State, just like what the Federal Government is doing now by completing the projects that were not finished by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. “You don’t leave uncompleted projects and go and start new ones. Sanwo-Olu should complete any project that Ambode, the outgoing governor has started because at the end of the day, government is a continuum.” Sagay, who confirmed that Ambode erred by abandoning some good projects left behind by his predecessor, Babatunde Fashola, such as the Lagos Home Ownership Mortgage Scheme (Lagos HOMS) project and the Blue Rail project, urged Sanwo-Olu not to toe the same path. “What Ambode did about the Lagos HOMS project that he abandoned, will not speak well for him when the history of Lagos is written, because, a lot of Lagosians need accommodation in the state now and you can see the buildings wasting away without being completed. To resuscitate them in future will cost a lot of money. “You can even see that the Lagos Metroline has slowed down. Nobody is working there. Since Babatunde Fashola left, there is hardly any construction going on and this is something that will have a fantastic and positive impact on Lagos because people can now drop their cars from Badagry areas right to the centre of Lagos. “When they are done, they can take a ride back; pick up their cars at the rail station and go. This is how it operates in civilised countries. So, what he did by not completing the Lagos HOMS project is wrong, but nevertheless, I will not want Sanwo-Olu to do the same thing on projects that Ambode is unable to complete,” Sagay stated. He continued: “I don’t believe in that kind of politics because your achievements will be undermined if you abandon projects which your predecessors couldn’t complete. I will advise Sanwo-Olu to complete the ones that Ambode couldn’t complete. In fact, he shouldn’t start new ones until he completes the existing ones.” Sanwo-Olu had presented a budget of N1.168 trillion for year 2020 on Friday, November 8, 2019 with education, and healthcare as top priorities and Lagosians are anxiously looking forward to seeing all these promises come to fruition. With a proposed fiscal plan of N115 billion for public infrastructure, the governor during the budget presentation, assured that Lagos State, will this year be a massive construction site. The governor unveiled his administration’s plan to accelerate the growth of state’s economy by proposing aggressive investments in critical areas of priorities – physical infrastructure, environment, human capital and security. Sanwo-Olu announced that the state would be spending N1.168 trillion, which will be funded from a projected Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of N1.071 trillion. The budget deficit, put at N97.53billion, will be financed through internal and external loans. Giving a breakdown of the budget, tagged, ‘Awakening to a Greater Lagos’, Sanwo-Olu earmarked 62 per cent, representing N723.75 billion of total spending, for capital expenditure, he said that recurrent expenditure, put at 38 per cent, will take N444.81 billion. Sanwo-Olu had said the proposed budget would help the state achieve a sustainable social investment and scale up private sector-led economic growth through investment in infrastructure and security. He said it would also improve civic engagement in governance and foster partnership with the Federal Government and the civil society. Explaining why his administration will be earmarking huge funds to the environment and public infrastructure, the governor said Lagos had been facing combined threats from population explosion and climate change. He said: “Lagos faces an existential threat, arising from the interplay of demographic and climate change. Lagos will continue to be a magnet for multitudes within and outside Nigeria, in search of jobs and economic prosperity. These levels of migration put phenomenal strain on the physical and fiscal resources of the state. “This budget seeks to aggressively invest in and develop our education, health and other physical infrastructure sectors. As at September 2019, our capital expenditure on works and infrastructure was just N31 billion, which is less compared with N78 billion proposed in the current year. It is our intention to spend N115 billion on physical infrastructure in 2020. “In response to the perennial challenges of flooding in the metropolis, we have to triple the capital budget provision to tackle these observed problems from N3 billion in 2019 to N9 billion in 2020. We are embarking on massive desilting of major drain systems across the state next year.” Sanwo-Olu plans to spend N48 billion on education and technology. This represents 60 per cent rise in capital allocation to the Ministry of Education. The state plans to spend N33 billion on healthcare programmes, which include proposed revamping and re-equipping over 350 Primary Health Centres. Sanwo-Olu described the proposed budget as ‘unique’, noting that its details reflected the wishes of residents, following series of consultations and feedback from stakeholders across the three senatorial districts. The governor assured residents of transparency and accountability in the implementation of the budget, pointing out that there would be strict performance mechanism to drive compliance and measure the progress of the budget at the execution stage. He said: “The 2020 budget will be supported by a Performance Management System that will ensure that, by December 2020, we shall achieve an optimal budget implementation when compared with previous years. This is in line with our commitment to transparency and accountability in the management of public finances. “We have provided N11.8 billion as counterpart funds in preparation for various social impact schemes. In addition, we have made provisions for N7.1 billion this year, to provide for industrial hubs, parks, graduate internship programs and virtual markets for artisans. This is in support for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) which are the engines for both economic and employment growth.” Sanwo-Olu observed that the approved re-ordering of the 2019 budget by the legislature gave the government an opportunity to raise N250 billion in addressing critical infrastructure needs, including rehabilitation of public schools, ongoing construction of Lagos–Badagry Expressway, Agege – Pen Cinema Overhead Bridge, Agric – Isawo Road, Bola Ahmed Tinubu – Igbogbo Road, and an ongoing road rehabilitation by Lagos Public Works. He added that the loan will also enable his administration to start the desilting of drain systems, provision of security and emergency hardware, light rail infrastructure, and construction of a General Hospital in Ojo, which is to be fitted with a Spinal and Neurology Unit. Sanwo-Olu reiterated that his administration’s development agenda, known as Project T.H.E.M.E.S, was designed to address major challenges facing the State and create a city that would work for the citizens. He said his administration was ready to transform Lagos by rethinking projects that will improve the wellbeing of the residents. It is, however, hoped that in a matter of months, Lagosians will start to witness turn around in major parts of the state when projects such as the Agege-Pen Cinema Flyover, Lagos–Badagry Expressway, Agric–Isawo Road, Bola Ahmed Tinubu–Igbogbo Road would be commissioned.