LAGOS – The Supreme Court on Tuesday, January 14, 2020, nullified the election of Emeka Ihedioha as the governor of Imo State and declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who came fourth in the March 9, 2019 governorship election, as winner and the validly elected governor of the state. The judgment was delivered by a seven-man panel of the apex court led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad. While reading the lead judgment, Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun ordered the immediate withdrawal of Certificate of Return (CoR) issued to Ihedioha, just as she directed that a fresh one should be issued to Uzodinma. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She also directed that Uzodinma be immediately sworn in as the governor of Imo State. Justice Kekere-Ekun dismissed the appeal of candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Ifeanyi Ararume, for being academic following the court’s declaration of Uzodinma as the winner of the election. In upholding Uzodinma’s appeal, the Supreme Court agreed with him that the votes polled in 388 out of the 3,523 polling units were excluded in the final results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the state on March 11, 2019. The judge ruled that with the addition of the excluded votes to the earlier declared final results, Uzodinma polled the highest lawful votes with the required spread of votes in the state. Kekere-Ekun set aside the judgments of both the Imo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal and the Court of Appeal, which had both affirmed Ihedioha’s election. “The lower courts misunderstood the case of the appellants. The case was not a case of exclusion from the election, but exclusion of votes from final results,” she ruled, adding that the lower courts were wrong to have rejected the results of the 388 polling units on the grounds that they were not tendered before the tribunal by the proper person. “P54, a police officer who tendered the results was subpoenaed to produce the results. Having been subpoenaed to produce the results, it was wrong for the lower courts to hold that P54 was not the proper person to tender the results,” Justice Kekere-Ekun ruled. The Supreme Court ruling took so many by surprised, not because Ihedioha was sacked as the state governor, but because the candidate who came distant fourth in the election, was declared the winner. After the judgment was delivered, Ihedioha’s lawyers and supporters were said to be in a shock as they were unable to move, remaining stuck to the same position in the courtroom. Whereas, Uzodinma’s supporters in the courtroom burst into shouts of joy as they stepped out of the courtroom. Since the return of democracy in 1999, most states in the South East region have always been governed by the PDP. No doubt the people from the region have always had soft spots for the PDP, which has always made it impossible for the opposition parties to make headway in the five states (Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo), which make up the region. As Imo State Governor The former governor of the State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, was the first governor to rule the state from the side of the progressives when he defected from the PDP to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), to run as an APGA candidate for Imo State governor in the April 2011 national elections.  In 2013, Okorocha defected to the APC. The latest judgment of the Supreme Court was strange to so many political observers, including many Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs). In its reaction to the judgment, the PDP through its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it finds it difficult to understand how Uzodinma, who came fourth in the governorship election, with just 96,458 votes, will unseat Ihedioha who scored 276,404 votes. “In fact, the PDP and indeed, most Nigerians are still at a loss as to understand the basis upon which the Supreme Court arrived at its decision,” it said. The party said it is lamentable that the destiny of the people of Imo State is being taken from the governor they chose and voted for and handed over to individuals and a political party that does not have their blessing and mandate, and which they rejected at the election. “The people of Imo state are now confronted with the challenge of having a government that they cannot identify with and which cannot connect with them, having not emanated from them. “Moreover, all the gains, including the development and stability already achieved by the people-based government, under Governor Emeka Ihedioha/PDP administration in the state are now heavily jeopardized. “Indeed, the mournful and despondent ambience that now pervades in Imo State is a loud testimony that the judgment did not reflect the expectation of the people of Imo state as expressed at the polls. “While recognising that the judgment of the Supreme Court is final, the PDP, however, urges all party stakeholders in the state to remain united and calm, and await further instructions from the national leadership on this very sad development,” the PDP said. And on Thursday at a world press conference addressed by the National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, with all members of the National Working Committee (NWC), the party demanded a review and reversal of the Supreme Court verdict, just as it also called for the resignation of the CJN, Justice Tanko. Secondus, who said the party was grieved by the apex court verdict, described it as a recipe for crisis and a gradual death knell for democracy in the country. “In the light of extraordinary circumstances that vitiate that judgment as a product of manipulation and a clear coup d’etat against the will of the people of Imo State, we demand that the decision of the Supreme Court on the Imo Governorship Election be reviewed and reversed in the interest of justice. “Furthermore we demand that Justice Tanko Mohammed, the CJN and his colleagues on the Imo Governorship Panel recluse themselves from the remaining cases involving PDP in the Supreme Court. “We state for the records that the Supreme Court under Justice Tanko Mohammed shall be held responsible if there is any breakdown of law and order in any state as a result of judgments procured solely for political rather than judicial reasons as is currently happening,” he said. The PDP chairman alleged that the Supreme Court, as presently constituted under Justice Mohammed Tanko, had become heavily compromised; lost its credibility and had now been annexed to execute ignoble agenda of the APC-led Federal Government against the Nigerian people. Secondus said that the fact is that, the Supreme Court, as presently constituted under Justice Tanko, has lost its credibility and no longer commands the respect and confidence of Nigerians. “If the people no longer repose confidence in the Supreme Court, then our democracy, national cohesion and stability are at great risk. The constitution of the panel that heard the appeal itself was a product of drama,” he added. Ihedioha, in his reaction, described the Supreme Court verdict as “unfair, unjust and does not reflect the voting that took place during the elections.” He maintained that ruling is “the truncation of the people’s will and an affront on the good initiative his administration after its experiences with ‘bad governance’ of the previous government in the state. “In the last seven months, we sought to elevate merit, unity of purpose, honesty, transparency and an inclusive approach to governance, as the hallmarks of our administration. We sought to restore once again, the pride and dignity of Imo people. We worked very hard to re-engineer the Imo renaissance. But, God knows why He has allowed this current state of affairs. “I do not agree with the judgment of the Supreme Court. I think it is unfair, unjust and does not reflect the voting that took place during the elections. It also didn’t take care of the sensibilities of the people of Imo State. But, as true democrats, Engr. Gerald Irona (ousted deputy governor) and I have no option but to respect the outcome of that judgement,” he said. Despite the condemnation of the judgment by the opposition and many others, President Muhammadu Buhari commended the Supreme Court for the “courage and perseverance” to return Uzodinma winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Imo. President Buhari said: “The road to justice may be long and tortuous, but it is the best path for anyone aggrieved. “Under the new administration, a new journey to build a new Imo with new energy is about to begin. In this outcome, it is the people of Imo State who have emerged victorious.” In congratulating the new governor, the president urged Uzodinma to promote the ideals of the APC and unite the state by running an inclusive administration. The APC, on its part, expressed delight over the court’s declaration. The party said in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, that its faith in the judiciary has been fully repaid. Issa-Onilu said: “Even as we are still wondering why we lost elections we clearly won in Zamfara at the Supreme Court and how the same court ruled our party out of the electoral race in Rivers, we have never, as a political party, lost faith in the judiciary. “We salute Senator Hope Uzodinma, our supporters and members for their temperance displayed in the aftermath of the blatant rigging of the Imo governorship election. “We chose to focus on the judicial route to reclaim the party’s mandate. We are confident that our other stolen electoral mandates will be restored by the courts.” The party’s spokesman, however, urged all Imo State APC stakeholders to come together in support of Uzodinma to ensure the success of the party’s next level agenda and to democratically entrench the APC in the state and entire South East. With the latest development, it is expected that the APC will capitalise on this to penetrate into the remaining four states in the region, especially as the race to the 2023 general elections has already commenced. The Ohanaeze Ndigbo on Wednesday said a greater number of states in South East region would be won by the APC before the 2023 general election. Many political analysts sharply disagreed with the Supreme Court judgment, because the APC did not win any seat in the House of Assembly Election that was held and collated the same day. The Imo State House of Assembly has 27 members and representation on party basis is as follows: PDP (13); AA (8); APGA (6); APC (0). However, Barrister Remi Olatubora, former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Ondo State, who was also on the defence team of Uzodinma, explained how the apex court arrived at its decision. “Many have called privately to ask me questions as to what happened in Imo governorship election petition. This little intervention is a summary of the legal contest. I must apologize in advance if some aspects of it are somewhat technical. “I am one of Senator Hope Uzodinma’s lawyers. I am not a member or a fan of APC but just an ordinary lawyer who did law job for the man who hired his services. The petition was fought on the basis of exclusion of election results from 388 polling units in Imo State. “These 388 polling units happened to be those in areas where Hope Uzodinma won massively. Many of them are around his father’s village. INEC in its pleading offered no explanation as to the whereabouts of election results of the 388 polling units. INEC only pleaded that no polling units’ results were excluded. “In our Law of Evidence there is what we call presumption. Applied to election litigation, there is the presumption that the 9th March 2019 Governorship election held in all the polling units in Imo. The implication of this is that the legal burden on INEC to account for what happened in the 388 polling units. We put in evidence results of the 388 contested polling units through the collation agents of Hope Uzodinma who witnessed the unlawful exclusion. “Neither INEC nor Emeka Ihedioha put in a different set of election results. Interestingly, neither INEC nor Ihedioha denied that those polling units in respect of which 388 Forms EC.8A were tendered and admitted, existed. “The Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of Operations during the election was subpoenaed. He responded and tendered copies of the Forms EC.8A given to police officers in the 388 polling units in evidence. These documents were admitted as Exhibits PPP1-PPP366. “Hope’s petition was not taken seriously. Emeka focused more on 1st runner-up’s petition. 1st runner-up asked for only nullification on ground that Emeka did not get required geographical spread. Hope Uzodinma asked to be returned as the winner of majority of the votes cast (declared result + excluded) AND ALTERNATIVELY for nullification and re-run. “In the fullness of time and sensing the futility of 1st runner-up’s prayer, we abandoned Uzodinma’s ALTERNATIVE PRAYER. The life of the law is not logic but experience. (O. W. Holmes). We had split decision at the Court of Appeal. The minority judgment was in favour of Hope Uzodinma. “What the Supreme Court did was to examine the fact of the case, cross-check on the health of the jurisprudence behind the majority and minority decisions of the Court of Appeal. If anything was wrong failure of INEC to give account is to be blamed not the Supreme Court.” The Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on Wednesday, said a greater number of states in South East region would be won by the APC before the 2023 general election. Secretary-General of the apex body of Ndigbo, Uche Okwukwu, made this remark in a congratulatory message to Uzodinma, describing the verdict as well considered. Okwukwu explained that with Uzodinma’s victory, Ndigbo were happy that the APC had enlarged its political space in Igboland. He said, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo heartily congratulates Senator Hope Uzodinma on his victory at the Supreme Court of Nigeria. “The judgment is a well-considered and sound one. Ndigbos are happy that Uzodinma’s mandate freely given by Imo people had been restored by God.” Leaders of the APC in the South-east, had on Thursday, January 2, said the party hopes to win at least three governorship elections in the region. The party also said it was targeting at least three speakership positions in the state assemblies in the zone and also hopes to have its members win a majority of the National Assembly seats for the zone. The Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, who revealed the party’s target during a stakeholders’ meeting at his country home Uburu, Ohaozara Local government area of Ebonyi State, had explained that for the target to be achieved, the party leaders in the zone must come together to strategically reposition the party in the region, ahead of 2023 general elections. He urged aggrieved party faithful to forgive whatever wrongs may have been done to them so as to forge a common front ahead of the next general elections. He said, “I will like to appeal to all our members in the South East, please no matter how the party offended you, no matter what any person may have done against you, please try and forgive because all of us are Christians. We believe very strongly when offended if we forgive that we are lifting even a great burden from ourselves. “We no longer want to have factions, we have seen that in Nigeria, the APC is the governing party and this party is very strong and will keep governing Nigeria for a long time to come. But in the South East geo-political zone, we are the only zone without a governor elected on the platform of APC. “So we want a change. We have our best people representing us at the National Working Committee of our great party, they have been giving us good leadership and we believe very strongly that if we keep supporting them, with what I have seen, by 2023 we should be aiming at a minimum of three governors elected on the platform of the APC. “We will have majority of the seats in the National Assembly from the southeast. We will also have majority of the seats at the state assemblies in our various states so that we will be producing a minimum of three speakers. Once we do this, it will help us, nobody will ever say that the South East does not make contributions to the party.” The party also said there was low publicity in the media for programmes, projects and policies carried out in the zone by the APC-led Federal Government. They expressed worry that most of the achievements recorded by the president in the zone were not known by people of the South East, adding that the South Easterners believed that the PDP leaders were the ones executing the projects. According to Onu, most of Buhari’s achievements in the region were being downplayed in the minds of the people, owing to lack of adequate and right communication strategies. The minister noted that if nothing had happened under the administration of Buhari in the zone, the honour it accorded to two of its illustrious sons and leaders, the late Nnamdi Azikiwe and the late Alex Ekwueme, in recognition of their contribution to the growth of Nigeria, should not be forgotten in a hurry. For the people of Imo State to accept the APC, Uzodinma will have to do a lot to convince the people and sell the APC ideology to them. Some of the challenges the new governor would have to surmount include, addressing the issue of decayed and decaying infrastructure particularly roads, paying the new minimum wage, controversies over payment of pensions, generating more revenues to accelerate development, and carrying critical stakeholders along. Uzodinma has also ordered the probe of three former governors of the state. They are, Ikedi Ohakim, Rochas Okorocha and Ihedioha. The governor who gave the order in his inaugural speech immediately he was sworn in, ordered the Accountant General of the state to within four days from Wednesday forward to him the comprehensive financial status of the state from May 29, 2010, till date. He equally ordered all Permanent Secretaries of all the ministries in the state to within the same period forward to him the status of all the contracts awarded. The governor ordered the immediate stoppage of payment of all ongoing contracts in the state, adding that his administration was anchored on rehabilitation, reconstruction and recovery. As much as many have applauded Uzodinma’s decision to probe the former governors, others believe that he may not be doing the right thing, as they feel such move may spell doom for his administration in the end.