John Mamman, Chairman of Taraba state Civil Service Commission (CSC),in this interview with JANET NYAJON AUDU, bares his mind on his Policies and dream for the Civil Service and other issues concerning Taraba state civil service. Excerpts: Sir, as the Chairman of Taraba State Civil Service Commission,  what is your dream for the Commission? I have a very lofty dream for Taraba state civil service because, you know civil service is the engine room for the execution for the policies of any government to succeed. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Taraba state civil service must have a very efficient civil service, and my dream is to turn what is now almost destroyed civil service in the state into a manageable and working machinery effectively to carry out the policies of Governor Darius rescue mission. God fatherism is still playing in the civil service, how do you hope to tackle such ugly situation? We can only handle that if only we know about it, we cannot go witch-hunting God fatherism, until somebody report such a case by way of petitioning before we can come in and investigate it, if there are reasons to suspect that some body has be unfairly favored or  ill-treated or cheated, we will correct it. Yes we heard about it, but no evidence to prove that God fatherism exists in the civil service, until one writes complaint or substantiate it before we take action. We wish somebody will come with such petition stating clearly who and who are the God fathers that exhibited action that portrayed him as a Godfather that is detrimental to the service then, we take that and pursue it to the end. Why is there discrimination against holders of HND in preference to Degree holders? As far as Taraba state Civil Service is concerned, we don’t have any kind of discrimination against holders of HND. In fact we will prefer those with HND with practical experience; the emphasis now is result. Those with HND are more result oriented, and we go for them. In fact, we take people with Diploma from Polytechnics; we grade them higher than those with Diploma from the University. Why is the state operating  contract appointment while there are hundreds of graduates roaming the street without employment? I disagree with you that there is contract appointment in the state. What people misunderstood as contract appointment is the category of people who are engaged as manpower. These are youths who are engaged pending when they will be employed because there has been embargo on employment and some services are needed hence the need to engaged this youth for optimum service delivery. With my coming on board, his Excellency has authorised that we convert them to permanent staff, and this is what we are currently doing. Don’t you see that issue of quota system in the appointment of public office holders such as permanent secretaries, is killing the Civil Service? For instance, there was a situation where a civil servant has not even reached level 15 and he was made a Permanent Secretary under the guise of quota system? Do you think that is healthy for the civil service system? I don’t think it is healthy. It is not fair. The whole concept of quota system is to do away with a situation where area is being marginalised, and this is contained in our constitution. The writers of the constitution envisaged a situation that every section of the state will be involved in the governance of the state so that no local government will feel sidelined. Where there is level 17 officer and you bring in a level 15 officers to be a Permanent Secretary is injustice and we will never allow that under my watch. Another problem confronting the civil service is that people buy their ways to be promoted above their seniors. How do you intend to tackle this anomaly? Well, if that was done in the past, we intend to stop it, because even in the form they filled during promotion exercise, we ask questions, and the critical question we ask is, “Is  this person superseding his senior?” If yes, “why is the junior being promoted above his or her senior colleague?” “What are the reasons for being promoted above his or her senior colleague?” The reason should be stated there clearly, “Is he exceptionally good or what?” If that question has been ignored in the past, we then lay emphasis on it and find out why it was so because we will not encourage such situation. It is not going to be a tea party as usual. The civil service had witnessed some challenges especially that of falsification of age, and years of service just to allow them remain in the service. How do you also intend to address such challenges? We have documented the data provided by every civil servant in the state. We’ve computerised the data provided by them.  So, nobody can tamper with our documents; they may try to falsify their age and years of service in their various ministries but, they can’t do that here in our commission. The reason why some people don’t want to retire and go is the fear of non-payment of pension and gratuity, as at when due. I am happy and glad to say that the governor has set machinery for payment of pension and gratuity for retirees in the state. So, let me use this medium to announce to those who are about to retire from the service not to panic because Darius is sensitive to their plight. I want to allay their fears that they are covered; they should keep aside that fear. The Governor has changed the negative narratives. Gone are the days when people kept falsifying their age and years of service. What is your take of this present administration under the leadership of Darius? Well, the governor deserves kudos because he has achieved some monumental strides, especially in area like Education.  When he came on board Taraba was ranked on 27th position in WAEC examinations but as we speak now, Taraba is the number 1 state in the 19 Northern states and the number 5 in the whole country. He has done well particularly in the secondary education.  We have also seen his performance in the water sector; both in urban and the rural areas. Before his coming, boreholes everywhere in the state have no water in them. For instance,   in Jalingo metropolis he brought in automatic vending machines. In the whole of this country Taraba is the first state to have done that in the water sector. So, he has done well in the water sector, also in agriculture. Taraba is the number 2 states of rice producer in the country. Look at the green house project which has brought Taraba to National limelight, our produce from the green house is being exported to Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt, Kaduna and other big cities in Nigeria. We have also seen his performance in the area of health; his problems have been the issue of security. You know insecurity deter progress and peace is the catalyst for development. There have been some pockets of crisis within the state, and the resources meant for infrastructural development are being channeled towards maintaining peace in the state. He came in with a peace mantra known as “Give me peace and I will give you development”.  If only Tarabans will cooperate with him by giving him the peace he has been yearning for, Taraba state will be far better than it is now. I, therefore, call on Tarabans to live in peace, embrace peace and give peace a chance so that we shall all begin to sing a new song. Sir, what is the fate of the recently screened job applicants in the state? Their letters of appointment are ready, and we are trying to call them for collection because most of them did not give us their contact address properly. However, we will soon publish it on national dailies, advertise on television and announce on radio. For those who left their telephone lines or emails, they will be appropriately contacted. Lastly, what’s your reaction to the recent judgment of the Supreme Court upholding the victory of Darius against the APC Candidate? The outcome of the Supreme Court can best be described as an act of God. The Judiciary has proven to us that they are just and fair; that is to say that the integrity of the Judiciary is still intact; even though I know that the APC has no case. It is not what you play with, Governor Darius is the governor who suffered litigation more than any other governor in Nigeria, but God has been with him, his victory did not come me as a surprise because I know that one with God is with majority, Tarabans voted him overwhelming, but the APC were so desperate to collect or steal his mandate by all means but thank God, he won the cases at Tribunal, Appeal and Supreme Court. God has proven his supremacy that he is the giver of power to whom he so wish, so I am glad that he won the cases. Gov. Darius Ishaku of Taraba in December presented a budget of N213.6billion for 2020 to the state House of Assembly for approval. Just few days ago, the budget was passed by the house. What is your take on this? What is your take on the budget? As already stated, the budget tagged “Budget of Accelerated Growth and Development”, was aimed at accelerating the development of the state. The budget was made up of N71.5billion recurrent expenditure, representing 33.5 per cent and N142.6billion capital expenditure, representing 66.5 per cent. Can you give us a break down of the budget? It may not be that easy to reel off the breakdown on every sector in this parley. However, Works and Transport were allocated the highest amount of N77 billion representing 36.6 percent of the budget, while a receipt of N21.8billion refund from the Federal Government on federal roads constructed by the state out of the N42.2billion expended on the project was included. As you can see, the governor has in the budget paid attention to the critical infrastructure and specific needs of the people of the state. The 2020 budget having being passed into law will further consolidate the numerous gains made by this administration. The budget was higher than the 2019 figure by 31.63 percent; however the budget was increased by N2bn during its consideration by the lawmakers thereby bringing the budget to N215.6bn. Regarding the timeliness of the budget, the lawmakers should be commended for the timely passage of the budget. The increase of N2bn in the budget was based on the new Value Added Tax of 7.5 per cent, and again N2bn was allocated to new ministries created in the state after the budget estimate was presented to the House. Tongues have been wagging that Tarabans of Tiv extraction are being marginalised in the scheme of governance in the state. What is your reaction to this? All I can tell you is that there is no Tiv man that is being marginalised. Those who talk about marginalisation are disgruntled elements who want to use that to cause confusion in the state. As far as I am concerned, no tribe is been marginalised in Taraba. Every tribe is given equal shared of the state resources. Like here in Taraba, the former commissioner of environment is a Tiv person, the Clerk of the state house of assembly is a tiv person. So how on earth would Tiv people alleged that they are been marginalised? The Tiv people in Taraba state must do away with the allegations of marginalisation and join hands with the people of the state to fight their common enemies that want to take over their lands. It is a shameful thing that the Jukuns and the Tiv who are supposed to work as a team are busy killing each other. Since the crisis between the Tiv and the Jukuns erupted, governor Darius Ishaku and his Benue state counterpart, governor Samuel Ortom have done all what is required to broker  peace between the warring parties. The Tiv people and the Jukuns at this critical moment must come together and live as one.