OWERRI – Prior to the Saturday 9th March 2019 governorship election in Imo state, what has now come to be known as political primordial sentiment in the nation’s body politics was cupiously brought to bear in the politics of the state dubbed Eastern Heartland (Imo state). The 3 senatorial zones– Imo West (Orlu zone), Imo East(Owerri zone) and Imo North (Okigwe zone) all insisted on producing the successor of the then sitting governor Rochas Okorocha. To be sure Okorocha now senator representing Imo west did not make any pretence to install his son in-law Uche Nwosu who was his chief of staff and erstwhile commissioner for Lands, Survey and Urban Development as his successor. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network (Both Okorocha and Nwosu are from the same Orlu senatorial zone a move that brought the duo on a collision course with the Imo East and Imo North senatorial districts who separately insisted on having one of their own as the next occupant of the Douglas House (Government House Owerri). This, they argued was in line with the Imo state Chanter of equity which was conceived and entrenched in the governorship arrangement of the state to rotate the exalted office among the 3 senatorial zones. Okorocha who moved mountains to actualize the Uche Nwosu governorship project eventually had his hope dashed consequent upon a high power display of power supremacy between him and the National Working Committee(NWC) of the APC which preferred Hope Uzodimma as the party’s standard bearer. Having had his ambition aborted, Okorocha and his teeming political disciples did not dilly dally to draft Nwosu to the nascent Action Alliance (AA) where he eventually grabbed the party’s ticket to run for the governorship. Nwosu at the consummation of the exercise came second, while senators Ifeanyi Araraume and Hope Uzodima of the APGA and APC clinched the 3rd and 4th positions respectfully as INEC declared Chief Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP the winner of the polls. Disillusioned with the results declared by the electoral umpire, the trio of Nwosu, Uzodimma and Araraume headed to the election petition tribunal from election, where they moved to the Appeal court and finally landed at the supreme court. Thus, to the beleaguered Imo electorate, approaching the nation’s apex court for possible nullification of the gubernatorial election result was a tall dream. But alas, the bomb shell was anxiously waiting in the pipe to be lighted for explosion and in the evening of Tuesday 14th of this month, the canon powder exploded which shook the state to its very political foundation. The 7 man justices in a unanimous judgment sent Chief Ihedioha packing from the highly respected Douglas House Owerri, directed INEC to the retrieve certificate of Return earlier issued to him and to conversely handover a new one to senator Hope Uzodimma of the APC as the new governor of the state. In retrospect, Ihedioha who hails from Mbutu, in the Aboh Mbaise council area had shortly on assumption of office brandished a novelty mantra which he christened “ Rebuild Imo” upon which he commenced inter –alia, a single Treasury Account (STA) system in the Management of Public Funds, payment of pensions to retired civil servants in the state and full payment of workers salaries. Others were solid public / private sector partnership to revive and to resuscitate the state’s ailing economy, recovery of looted government property, construction of stadia in each of the 27 LGAs of the state, ambitious road construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation coupled with a touted autonomy for the local government councils in the state. Fondly called Omenkeahuruanya( a great achiever), the former governor equally unfolded his plans for full industrialization of the state, religious and strict adherence to the principle of separation of powers among the 3 arms of government, due process and the rule of law. Now, with the change of power in the state, the poser on the lips of the inquisitive electorate is “what is most likely to be the fate of the state’s wobbling economy? Will Uzodima who has a solid private sector background bring his wealth of experience in the private sector to bear in the onerous task of reviving the state’s ailing resources? Will be sustain the tempo of systematical clearing the backlog of arrears owned pensioners in the state? Uzodima is a financial magnet with vast business empires and not a few indigenes of the state believe that he has the magic wand to turn the state economy round. Reacting to the ruling of the supreme court, a former Attorney General and commissioner for Justice in the state Professor Francis Dike (SAN) who is also chairman of Elder and Deputy of Imo Elders League said “after the unmitigated disaster and retrogression of 8 years, we saw the light at the end of the tunnel and we hoped and prayed, the Supreme Court had said what it wanted to say, we hope that the new governor Hope Uzodimma will kindle the light so that we can emerge as a leading sate in Nigeria which we are supposed to be. The tragedy about the Nigeria judicial system has with the Ivory towers and Bar Association. In England, we have the Cambridge, Law journals, the modern day review and law quarterly review just to mention a few. In USA we have Virginia law review and University of Columbia, so also in Canada, India. But sadly in Nigeria, since the 1980s, there is no avenue in which judgment can be evaluated by those who and those who teach law. All we have with our students and new generation of lawyers is bland statement that the Supreme Court has said this or that we swallow everything hook and sinker. As a lawyer I think that there are so many areas in the judgment that appear too mechanical jurisprudence. On behalf of Orlu Elders and Imo League, we welcome our new governor Hope Uzodinma and we will give him all the necessary support he needs for Imo to move forward because our people have suffered enough”. I commend Ihedioha for the stride he recorded in a short period. In his reaction: Chief Chris Ejike Uche (DimkpaAssa) – Deputy National Chairman of the UPP (South) said that prominent Imolites outside the PDP and APC saw the judgment as a political thunder stroke that had put the state on a reverse gear because of the past travails of the people. Chief Ejike Uche lauded Ihedioha for the introduction of the Single Treasury Account, Imo being declared the least corrupt state in the federation under his tenure, urging Uzodinma to maintain the tempo. “Imo is at the paramount of what we are looking for. Even though I am from Orlu zone, let Uzodinma live up to our expectation because he has a lot of hurdles to scale through such as payment of pensions, engagement of bureaucrats on full time basis, regular payment of salary to workers and he should not deviate. We of the UPP congratulate Uzodinma”. With the situation now, the people of the state are full of expectations that Uzodinma would take the state to the next level in growth and in development. Uzodinma Ihedioha