Comrade Austin Ozobo, a Niger Delta human rights activist, is the National President, Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI). Ozobo, the Burutu North State Constituency candidate for the Delta State House of Assembly election under the platform of the Nigeria People’s Congress (NPC) in the last election, spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the shape of politics in 2020, expectations from the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa administration, among other crucial national issues. Excerpts: How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s performance in 2019? President Buhari’s performance in 2019 was poor in terms of administration, infrastructure, job creation and general development. I can’t find any visible capital project Buhari could boast of in 2019. I saw massive abuse of human rights in 2019. I saw an attempt to gag press freedom in the country. There was high herdsmen killing and increase in Boko Haram activities in the country. There was also increase in SARS lawlessness in the country. The cost of living was very high and commodities became unaffordable. Hardship and hunger were everywhere. Power supply was near zero. There was no reform in the health sector and the country’s electoral system suffered a nose dive. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As Nigerians enter year 2020, what are your expectations from the President? I am not expecting much from him in 2020, having known who Buhari is. He is only interested in fighting common enemies through his anti-corruption crusade. The money they have allegedly recovered has not been made public and not accounted for. We have not seen the benefits of his anti-corruption war. He is interested in silencing some big voices in the country so that he can carry out a vendetta unchecked. However, I would want his administration to put every federal road in the country in order. He should complete the East-West road, release adequate funds for the Nigeria Maritime University, Ekerenkoko, to enable the school build capacity. He should kick start the Niger Delta dialogue to avoid attack on oil facilities in the region towards 2023 and stop further abuse of human rights in the country. The Buhari administration has been under attack over its alleged poor human rights records and disrespect for human rights. What is your take on that? This is a sign that we are not in a democratic regime under Buhari. We are in a full-blown dictatorship as if we are under a military rule. Lives in the country are under a big threat under this administration. His administration has the worst human rights record. He has destroyed the judiciary. He controls the courts. People no longer see issues decided at their merit, but according to the whims and caprices of the president or his party. The court is no longer the hope of the common man. The judiciary today operates as an arm of the executive. The independence of the judiciary has disappeared. Similar situation exists in the legislature. The security agencies have turned willing tools in the hands of the president and the ruling party. There is no longer professionalism in their operations. They have been either used to witch-hunt or kill the people.  In normal circumstances, every offence has laid down punishment, whether civil or criminal. So, the laws should be used to exercise punishment for offenders. Unfortunately, Buhari’s opinions and interests are now laws. The laws of the land are now for the gods. What a shame! I call on the international community to sanction Nigeria over human rights abuses of this administration. The recent attack of the house of former President Goodluck Jonathan in Otuoke, Bayelsa State, was shocking. What is your take on the development? I was surprised about it. I was speechless when I heard of it. I condemn it. I think it was done by some people who are not happy about the outcome of the recent gubernatorial election in the state. He wasn’t the person that caused the failure of the PDP.  So, they should not be angry with him. The party failed because of Governor Seriake Dickson’s uncompromising leadership style. PDP’s failure in Bayelsa started from the build-up of the primary election and finally the imposition of a candidate by the governor. So, anybody attacking Jonathan was just not sincere. What is your view on the recent suspension of the Niger Delta Development Corporation (NDDC) Board by the President after it had been cleared by the Senate? The interim NDDC board should equally be dissolved. It is not only the substantive board that is faulty. Both are wrongly constituted without a due process. We agitated for the dissolution of the two boards and not only the substantive board. The dissolution of the substantive board is a corrective measures taken to save the commission’s Establishment Act and as well we cannot retain the illegal interim board having imposed for the interest of a few. However, the dissolution of the NDDC illegal substantive board was part of what our group was agitating for. It was as a wise decision and right step taken so far. The board was illegally constituted which was in violation of the NDDC Establishment Act. It is not the turn of Edo State to produce the chairman of the commission. Following the alphabetic order of the legal framework, it is the turn of Delta to produce the chairman of the commission and that of the Managing Director (MD). The MD is by production quantum and while the chairman is by alphabetical arrangement which alphabet A, B, C , which is Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Cross Rivers States have produced and now is the turn of alphabet D, which Delta State to produce the chairman. The Act was totally violated and that was the ground for our agitations. We are glad that President Buhari has seen the need to dissolve it to avoid further conflict in the region. On the other hand, Buhari’s action shows that he lacks political ideology and that his decisions are influenced by emotions. He is seriously confused. A government that has foresight will not do these embarrassing mistakes. You sent nominees to Senate for confirmation and they were confirmed as requested and at the point of inauguration, you appointed another controversial interim board. After screening and confirmation of the purported substantive board, you dissolve it. This is a sign of confusion, incompetence, poor governance. It means our president cannot make forecast. Those decisions were taken arbitrarily for the gain of a few. In the same vein, the interim board was faulty. It was constituted by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio. There is no provision in NDDC Establishment Act that empowered a minister to appoint or constitute the board of the commission. So, the interim board is illegal. That is why we said it should be dissolved. The NDDC Act does not make provision for any interim board. Keeping the interim board which is not even recognised by the senate is another illegality perpetrated by Buhari government. What we see now is an attempt to legalise the interim board by the presidency. The senate should hold on to their earlier position and should not allow the interim board to sign or defend any budget of the commission. Members of the interim board are not auditors and we should not mix it up. We don’t want the interim board and they should be evicted as well. A new board should be immediately constituted in line with the provision of the laws of the commission to avoid further crisis in the region. How do you see the speculation that former Delta State governor, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, has been tipped as the new Chairman of the NDDC board? I have no problem with Uduaghan. Being a former governor of Delta State he is qualified to be appointed as chairman of the commission. He tried his best while in power.  I gave him kudos in areas like transport, education, health and peace management. Even if he failed in other areas, he did perfectly well in the aforementioned. My only fear is that he shortchanged the riverine communities. The oil comes from the riverine communities. But, his eight years in power, the riverine communities were abandoned and sidelined. It is my advice that he should strive to correct these errors if given another privilege of leadership. How do you see the Niger Delta politics as the nation marches towards 2023 election? Niger Delta must produce the next vice president of the country. That is the only ground for peace. We can never be intimidated. If Nigeria exists till 2023, we must produce the next vice president of the country.  I regret to say that APC and PDP politics is dividing us in Niger Delta. The division will cause unnecessary conflicts.  We are depreciating in terms of quality development in the region. My worry is that APC appointees in Niger Delta are not interested in development of the region. They are not interested in affecting lives positively in the region. They pursue self-interests and very desperate for power. They succeeded in dividing us on party lines. Despite all that, like I said earlier, we (Niger Delta) are producing the next vice presidential candidate, either in PDP or APC. That is our current position. What is your view on the performance of Governor Okowa’s administration in Delta State in his second term so far? He has not done up to expectations. We expect that he should have done far more that he has done by now. But, the reverse is the case. Though, he did some quality roads in his first term, more roads are still dilapidated. He made some efforts on job creation in his first term, but it was hijacked by politicians. In terms of empowerment, roads and other infrastructures, he is yet to do visible work in his second term. We in the riverine communities are deprived of development. We produce the revenue that sustains the state, but what we get is not commensurable to our sacrifices. He did some few internal road projects after much protests and pressures from the youths and critical stakeholders. Now, he has abandoned two critical projects awarded by his predecessor, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, the Ayakoromo bridge project and the permanent site projects of Delta State School of Marine Technology, Burutu. These are key projects that are dear to the state. But, he failed to prioritise it. We want him to release funds and expedite action on them to avoid bad blood between the state and the riverine people. Okowa has refused to release funds for Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC). The enabling laws of the commission say that 50 percent of the 13 percent derivation should be allocated to the commission for development of oil producing communities. This Act is being violated. Now, he determines what to be given to the commission. He determines which project to be approved or not. That is contrary to the laws establishing the commission. The right of oil producing communities has been shortchanged. DESOPADEC is now a camouflage and no longer serving the interest of oil producing communities in Delta State. Besides, he arbitrarily amended the Act to include Ika as oil bearing community and made provision for Ika representation in the commission. But, in the real sense, Ika only produces a little gas. Even if it should be part of DESOPADEC , Ika cannot produce a representative in DESOPADEC Board. Now, more developmental projects of the commission are being directed to Ika that produces just a drop of oil. He did it because he is from Ika. He wants his people to benefit from the commission. This is an act of ethnic bias. Deltans are disappointed over this singular reason. By this singular act, he has destroyed the commission. What is your take on the formation of South West Security Network, Amotekun, by the regional governments? It is a welcome development. We must defend ourselves against Boko Haram terrorists spread in the country. We must defend ourselves against the spread of killer herdsmen since the government has failed to protect lives and properties in the country. The formation of Amotekun is timely and well deserved. Amotekun formation has not breached any known law in the country. We have the Hisbah in the North. We have Sharia Police in the North. We have Civilian JTF in North East. All are being empowered to carry fire arms.  The issue of security being a business of the federal government has nothing to do with people providing internal defence for themselves. Although power is in the Exclusive List, the federal government allows states to spend much money for power. Water is in the Exclusive List, yet it is happy when states make frantic efforts to provide water. Security is in Exclusive List, but the federal government allows state governments to spend more on maintaining security in their states. As far as I am concerned, you cannot quantify individual efforts to sustainable peace in the country. We, as citizens, do more of the security of our environment than what police and other security apparatus are doing. There is no sense in federal government argument over Amotekun, especially now that Nigeria’s security system has failed. We are at risk hence we must devise means to protect and defend ourselves. Nigeria police has abandoned their official duty for extortion of members of the public. They have abandoned the national assignments to feast on ‘Yahoo Boys’. They now go on operation with POS like businessmen and women for their daily bread. We cannot risk our lives because of people whose trade mark is extortion. Police no longer have time for the protection of lives and property. We will all be killed by herders, cults and Boko Haram sect if we depend on these commercial traders called the police in this country. They have legalised bribe collection, extortion and killing of citizens at slightest provocations. We are not safe if we must depend on Nigerian police as it has turned the greatest threat to survival. Every state must devise means to protect her people and their properties. Looking at the volatile nature of the country, 60 percent of Nigerian police are body guards and gatemen to politicians and other influential citizens. The remaining 40 percent is only interested on commercial trade of extortion and parading with POS for additional pay. Neither the police nor the government is interested in the protection of the lives of the common people.  ‘Operation Amotekun’ should be emulated by South South, South East and Middle Belt States. The law is not against private security guards. Amotekun is a private security guard in the South West and the federal government lacks the constitutional powers to call it illegal. It lacks power to disband it, whether the South West states decide to give them gun or not. If the Fulani herdsmen could carry AK- 47 rifles freely in the country, South West states are equally free to give Amotekun  guns, if truly we are operating under same Nigeria constitution. As Niger Deltans, we give our backing to the South West for the launch of ‘Operation Amotekun’. Here in Niger Delta we are at alert. Our gods and ancestors are at alert, even if we have not come up with such internal security arrangements. 