In this report, TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, EJIKEME OMENAZU and JOY ANIGBOGU reflect on some major political events that occurred in the outgone year 2019 as Nigerians herald the New Year. Justice Onnoghen’s Travail A major highlight of the outgone year was the suspension of former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, over alleged discrepancies in his asset declaration. Notwithstanding protests by several legal luminaries, the then CJN was tried and found guilty by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), which recommended that he should be sacked. However, Justice Onnoghen’s sack was later commuted to retirement with full benefit. This is seen as the climax of the attempt by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s move to pocket the Judiciary, a move started with the arrest and trial of several judges over alleged corrupt practices. With Onnoghen’s travails, Buhari named Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad as the new CJN. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Buhari Wins Re-Election Professor Mahmood Yakubu, the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), On Wednesday, February 27, 2019, declared President Muhammadu Buhari winner of the February 23, 2019 presidential election. Buhari defeated Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with a vote differential of 3,928,869. Buhari polled 15, 191,847 votes to Atiku’s 11,262,978 tally. Omoyele Sowore, an activist presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC), a leftist party, reportedly came third. Atiku went to the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, which upheld Buhari’s election. The PDP candidate also approached the Supreme Court, which also upheld the ruling of the tribunal, thereby sealing Atiku’s hope of ruling the country. Saraki Loses Senatorial Seat Former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, lost his seat due to a negative campaign of the All Progressives Congress (APC), both at the national and his home state, through the ‘Otoge’ movement, allegedly championed by Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, both from Kwara Central. Saraki had earlier lost the PDP presidential primaries to Atiku Abubakar. Saraki lost to his APC opponent, Ibrahim Oloriegbe in all four local councils in the senatorial district with the final result standing at 123,808 votes to his own 68,994. By his defeat at the Senatorial election, marked the end of the Saraki dynasty in Kwara, as his sister, now a minister under Buhari, had earlier crossed over to the APC. Will Saraki dynasty return to power again? Only time will tell. Akpabio Loses In Akwa Ibom One of the major fall-out of the 2019 elections was the loss of former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, who was the Senate Minority Leader. Akpabio, who was a strongman of Akwa Ibom politics, incurred the wrath of the people when he suddenly jettisoned the PDP, which brought him to political prominence and defected to the APC. The people paid him back by handing him a humiliating defeat in his Akwa Ibom North-West, thereby losing his seat to the PDP candidate, Chris Ekpenyong. Imo Elections Drama Former Governor Rochas Okorocha brought a lot of drama to the elections in Imo State. Okorocha, who wanted his son-ilaw, Uche Nwosu to succeed him, desperately encouraged him to defect to the Action Alliance (AA). At campaign rallies, he would be campaigning for himself and President Buhari under the APC, on one hand, and on the other, Uche Nwosu of the Action Alliance. A mega rally which had Aisha Buhari in attendance became so rowdy due to Okorocha’s actions, to the extnt that there shhottings and stampede, leading to injusries of several people. While he won his senatorial seat, his son-inlaw suffered a humiliating defeat by Emeka Ihedioha of PDP, thereby ending Okorocha’s familitocracy in Imo State.Okorocha’s action, however, earned him a suspension by his party, though he is now a Distinguished Senator. PDP Snatches Oyo From APC One of the major upsets of the 2019 elections was the PDP’s surprising defeat of APC in Oyo State. PDP’s Seyi Makinde, floored APC’s Bayo Adelabu to emerge the state governor in the 2019 election. Makinde’s victory, which had been upheld by the superior courts, ended APC’s long rule in Oyo. APC Manages To Retain Ogun Former Governor of Ogun state, Ibikunle Amosun Ibikunle Amosun, supported a candidate of Allied Peoples Movement (APM) against his party, APC . During the rallies, Amosun who contested as a senatorial candidate under APC would be campaigning for himself and President Buhari, while at the same time campaigning for his APM candidate. This culminated into party thugs throwing sachet water at a rally where Buhari was in attendance. Like Okorocha, he won his senatorial seat, while his APM candidate lost to the APC candidate, Dapo Abiodun. Abiodun led with 241,670 votes against Adekunle Akinlade of APM and Amosun’s candidate, who scored 222,153 votes. But, APC also suspended Amosun over what it termed anti-party activities. Orji Uzor Kalu’s Travails Former Governor of Abia state, Orji Uzor Kalu had the biggest mixed blessings of the year. During the 2019 elections, he defeated the then incumbent Senator Mao Ohuabunwa, to become the representative of Abia North Senatorial district. Being the most influential APC Senator from the South East, he emerged the Senate Chief Whip. However, his presence in the Red Chamber was cut short by a Lagos Federal High Court, which handed him a 12-year jail term over N7.2 billion fraud and money laundering while he was a governor. However, he would continue to get his salaries and allowances while in jail pending the outcome of his appeal which is yet to commence. Also jailed for the same offence was his former Commissioner for Finance in the state, Jones Udeogu. His company, Slok Nig. Ltd, was seized, while his property to be forfeited to the Federal Government. But, a cross section of Nigerians felt that the court should have awarded the properties to Abia State, which owned the moneys corruptly acquired by Kalu. Kogi Electoral War What could pass as the worst electoral battle took place in Kogi State, where thugs held sway and ensured the return of APC’s Governor Yahaya Bello, who people felt did not perform in his first term. The election witnessed burning of party offices of the opposition parties. But the climax was the burning of the PDP Woman Leader, Mrs. Salome Abuh, in her house. The murder of Mrs. Salome Abuh, the PDP women leader in Kogi State was the most tragic and traumatic moment in Nigerian politics in 2019. Bayelsa’s Electoral Drama Bayelsa State witnessed a dramatic change of guard as the APC snatched victory from the PDP, thereby cutting short the party’s long hold on the state. APC’s David Lyon defeated Governor Seriake Dickson’s favoured candidate, Duoye Diri, thereby expanding the nation’s ruling party’s territory in the South. However, Lyion’s victory was linked to the alleged support of former President Goodluck Jonathan, who was irked by Dickson’s insistence on his candidate, against all advices, and the governor’s failure to consult him and other major stakeholders. Prior to the election, Jonathan paid a surprise visit to Buhari at Aso Rock. Again, immediately after the election, the APC chiefs in Bayelsa paid a courtesy visit to Jonathan, all these leading to speculation that the former president might defect to the APC. Dino Melaye Loses, Adeyemi Retuns To Senate Dino Melaye, generally perceived as the enfant terrible of the Senate and Kogi politics finally suffered defeat. Melaye, who was one of the supporters of Bukola Saraki in the Senate and had been having series of problems with the powers-that-be, both in his state and with the Police, lost his rerun Kogi West to APC’s Smart Adeyemi. Melaye, a one-time House of Representatives member, it would be recalled, snatched the seat from Adeyemi in the 2015 election. Zamfara House Bill Against Ex-Governor, Deputies’ Pension A major event in 2019 was a bill passed by the Zamfara House of Assembly, nullifying the payment of pension allowances to former governors and their deputies. Nigerians hailed the boldness of the Zamfara lawmakers as this issue had been generating heat both at the federal and state levels as a lot of public officers had been enjoying several pension payments to the detriment of national development and impoverished masses. NASS Controversial N37Bn Renovation The proposed N37 billion renovation of the National Assembly (NASS) complex in the 2020 budget of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has been causing ripples in the polity. This has pitched the Federal Government and the legislature against the people. Already some civil society groups and activists have taken the FG, the FCT, the NASS government to court over the matter. Ambode’s Travails Having been denied a second term by the APC, former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode became subject of political vituperations by the party’s chieftains in government, who wanted him probed by the state House of Assembly over the state-of-the-art mass transit buses he ordered before the election, many of which had arrived and put in use for the people. However, Ambode got a breather from a Lagos High Court, which put the lawmakers on hold through an injuction, for the judicial process to run. Amboe is believed to be hounded by his party men over his alleged high handedness while in power and certain derogatory remarks he made against the incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on the eve of the APC governorship primary election. Senator Abbo Beats up Lady In Sex Toy Shop The nation’s youngest senator, Elisha Abbo, found himself in a mess when he beat up a woman in a sex toys shop in Abuja. The attack which went viral on social media, became subject of police investigation and subsequent judicial process. Although the senator few days later apologised to the lady, the womenfolk and the Nigerian populace, the matter still went to court and is yet to be determined. Obaseki and Oshiomhole’s Face-Off in Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has been in power tussle with the APC National Chairman and his former godfather, Adams Oshiomhole over who should control the politics of the state. The matter came to a head when moves by Oshiomhole to determine the leadership of the State House of Assembly were rebuffed by Obaseki. All efforts by the APC national chairman to use the National Assembly to do his bidding were scuttled by the court. While Oshiomhole has been plotting to deny Obaseki a second term by bringing Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyanmu, formerly of the PDP to the APC fold, the governor’s camp has named the Deputy Governor as the APC Leader in Oshiomhole’s senatorial district, which has also suspended him. However, the APC governors are working on a settlement plan. Buhari Signs 2020 Budget In 2019 For the first time in the democratic dispensation, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the N10.594 Appropriation Bill for 2020 in 2019. Having submitted the budget as early as October, the National Assembly worked assiduously to pass it on schedule. By signing the budget in the outgone year, the budget will now return to January to December, instead of what it had been so far. Aisha Buhari’s Burdens Aisha Buhari, President Buhari’s wife, on return from a long visit to Saudi Arabia, spoke on the alleged plan by her husband to take another wife. However, her statement over the issue was said to have allegedly stopped by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman. Some videos released by her and Abba Kyari’s daughter over a fight for the control of Aso Rock apartments went viral. Aisha, who reclaimed the official title of Nigeria’s First Lady, also openly questioned the loyalty of Garba Shehu, saying he serves the Aso Rock cabals, rather than the First Family. $9.6 Billion PD&I Judgment A $9.6 billion gas deal that went awry was determined by a United Kingdom (UK) court against Nigeria in favour of Process and Industrial Development (PD&I). However, the Federal Government has been fighting to find a soft landing through a judgment review. The ruling generated significant attention in both domestic and international media. This was understandable as the sum amounted to 20 percent of the country’s foreign reserves, which meant it posed a significant threat to the nation’s economy. Virgin Island based P&ID in January 11, 2010, signed a gas supply and processing agreement contract with the Federal Government. Nigeria’s government agreed that over a 20-year period, it would supply natural gas (wet gas) to P&ID’s production facility. In return, P&ID would process the wet gas by removing natural gas liquids and return approximately 85% of it to the government in the form of lean gas. This lean gas was to be returned at no cost to the Nigerian government. However, FG reportedly breached the contract and the company went to court. The government’s dilly dally helped to give the company upper hand in court. The case is still being pursued by the government to see how the judgment debt could be slashed. Ex-NSA Dasuki, Sowore Freed On Bail Omoyele Sowore, presidential candidate and National Chairman of African Action Congress (AAC) was arrested on August 3, 2019 in the process of organising nationwide mass protests termed #RevolutionNow, under the auspices of Coalition for Revolution (CORE) and Take It Back Movement (TIB). Sowore, publisher of Sahara Reporters, popular American-based online medium, was denied accused of treason and clamped into detention which refused to release him after fulfilling stringent bail conditions stipulating by the courts. On appearing before the court after the DSS was pressured to release him on bail, the security operatives in an attempt to re-arrest him, stormed into the court which was in session, leading to a national and international uproar over President Buhari’s poor human rights image. Following pressure on the international community, Amnesty International (AI) declared Sowore, and other detainees, including Agba Jalingo, Sambo Dasukki, former National Security Adviser and El-ZackyZaky, Prisoners of Conscience. Following threats by United States and fear of global isolation, the Federal Government, through Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, orderd the DSS to release Sowore, Dasuki and Olawale Bakare, Sowore’s associate. In case of Agba Jalingo, held through the instruction of Ben Ayide of Cross River State, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zeenat, being prosecuted by the Kaduna State government, Malami maintained that “the Federal Government does not interfere with the cases that are being prosecuted by a state government.” El-Zakzaky and his wife are being prosecuted by the Kaduna State government on charges of murder. Deaths Some notable deaths recorded in 2019 are that of Brig-General Mobolaji Johnson, first military governor of Lagos State; Prof. Tam David-West, a former Minister of Petroleum and Energy; Chief Alex Akinyele, a former Minister of Information; Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, who represented Imo North Senatorial District at the Senate on the platform of the ruling APC; Hon. Temitope Olatoye, famously known as Sugar, who represented Lagelu/Akinleye constituency of Oyo State in the House of Representatives, Senator Mojisoluwa Akinfenwa, former national chairman of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and others.