LAGOS – The rejection by the House of Representatives of the bill seeking to provide a single term of six years for the president and governors in Nigeria has continued to generate mixed reactions from Nigerians. The bill sponsored by John Dyegh, an All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Reps member from Benue State, seeks to also provide for an unlimited tenure of six years for members of the National Assembly and state houses of assemblies. However, the idea was rejected few days ago at plenary as most lawmakers kicked against it, arguing that there was nothing wrong with the system Nigeria currently operates. The bill was subsequently voted against when Idris Wase, The Deputy Speaker, who presided over the session, put it up for vote for second reading. Since the idea of the bill was mooted, many had alleged it was being sponsored by the Presidency as a deliberate ploy to elongate President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure in office. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network However, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, expressed displeasure with the speed with which the six-year single term proposal for president and governors was rejected by the federal lawmakers. In a statement issued by his Media Adviser, Mr Paul Ibe, the former Peoples Democratic Candidate (PDP) presidential candidate said that he was disappointed by the fact that the lawmakers had thrown away the baby with the bath water at the expense of the larger interest of the country. According to him, ‘ in view of the challenges facing Nigeria current democratic order, especially the culture of rigging that subverts the will of the people, six-year single term would have ended such untoward practices in its electoral process. “The desperation for second term by the incumbents is the main reason why they go for broke and set the rule book on fire, thereby making free and fair elections impossible by legitimising rigging at the expense of their challengers that have no access to public funds. “A situation where the incumbents deploy more public resources to their second term projects than using the funds for people’s welfare encourages massive rigging that undermines electoral integrity. “Six-year single term would remove such desperation and enable the incumbents to concentrate on the job for which they were elected in the first place.” Abubakar regretted that eight-year term of office rewards incompetence because even incumbents that have failed would use their access to public funds to return to power by fair or foul means. “I don’t agree with the logic that eight years would give elected leaders better opportunity to fulfill their campaign promises. “An inherently incompetent incumbent will perform below average even if you give him/ her 20 years in office or give him or her $20 billion dollars,” Abubakar stressed. According to him, it is not how long a man spends in office, but how well he is adequately prepared for the job. He argued that the desperation for second term was not necessarily driven by patriotism or the passion for service, but by the obsession with the greed for power for its own sake. “Second term obsession rewards incompetence by allowing failed incumbents to be reelected regardless of their performance record. “It also denies political parties the opportunity to replace failed incumbents with better candidates within the parties in the name of right of first refusal.” In his reaction to the bill’s rejection, Sergius Ogun, member Representing Esan North East and Esan South East federal constituency from Edo State argued that it would save the country the funds used to conduct elections every four years. He said, “This bill intends to also save money being spent on elections for second term. It will save this country and our democracy.” Also speaking, Alhaji Buba Galadima, a former ally of President Buhari said the bill is a ploy by current political office holders, including President Buhari to perpetuate themselves in office beyond 2023. “The signs are there. Look at the House of Representatives and bill seeking single term of six years for current political office holders. Some gullible Nigerians are saying the bill was thrown out but that is not true. Even though the Bill was thrown out by majority of the lawmakers, the Deputy Speaker in his ruling said this issue has been set aside. What that means is that it can be re-presented. That is what many people don’t understand. But according to the rules of the House, that issue is dead and cannot be brought up again. This people are serious about perpetuating themselves in power and unless we speak up and fight for our rights, we are finished as a country”. On why he is against the bill, Galadima said “My grudge is that if the bill is passed, those in authority today will benefit from it. I attended the 1987 Constituent Assembly, 1994 Constitutional conference and I also attended the 2014 national conference during the Goodluck Jonathan administration. I have always stood against a single term for any elected public officer, be it local government, governor or President. My belief is that the electorate must be given the opportunity to throw out bad governments at every stage after four years. I still stand by that and I am ready to debate with anybody on this issue anytime”. In its reaction,, the Presidency says any mention of President Buhari in relation to the six-year single term bill is a ‘wild speculation’. However, while absolving Buhari of any involvement in pushing for the bill, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Babajide Omoworare, said the president’s body language so far did not show he’s interested in a third term, much less use the legislature to initiate the process for him. He said Buhari had warned politicians against using his name to canvass votes or expect him to support any of them as his candidate for an elective office in 2023. He said, “To the best of my knowledge, the President has said a number of times that he is not interested in a third term. He said so a few months ago during the National Executive Council meeting at the APC Secretariat. He said it candidly and vividly that he was not interested. I have not seen anything in his attitude to the contrary.” Omoworare also recalled that Buhari during his 77th birthday emphasised that nobody should associate his name with their political ambitions in 2023. “In fact, on his recent 77th birthday, he repeated it that nobody should use his name to campaign ahead of the 2023 elections. He did this for everybody to see that not only that he is not interested in coming back, but also that he is not interested in supporting anybody. “The body language I have seen so far is that the President is not interested in coming back for a third time. He has spent all his terms. God has been merciful to him. He has been a military Head of State and he has been President of Nigeria under a democratic setting and I have not seen anything indicating that he wants a third term, ” he said. While disassociating President from the bill, Omoworare further said that any mention of President Muhammadu Buhari in relation to the six-year single term bill is a wild speculation. Buhari Atiku