Honourable Kunle Okunola, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was a former Lagos State Organising Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he spoke about reason he dumped PDP, why the South must support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for president in 2023, and other issues. Excerpts: Why did you defect from the PDP to the APC? I joined APC because i want to fulfill his dream of contributing to nation building. I have always wanted an opportunity to contribute to nation building but discovered that I could not meet that aspiration under the main opposition party, which really formed my opinion of defecting to a party of progressives, where i would be able to serve my people. I contested for Ikeja Federal Constituency 1, twice on the platform of PDP. I must say that governance is not about party but the chance to serve people. It is APC that would make my dream come true. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Some of your supporters faulted your move to APC. What can you say about that? There is nothing wrong with joining APC so that I can add my quota to the development of Nigeria. A lot of people are pointing accusing fingers at me that APC is a failing party because they lost elections last year; but we should join hands to move the country forward. What can you say about the insistence of the North that power would remain in the North till 2031? The Nigerian project is based on power rotation, when you do eight years, other regions can also have a chance to get it. When I was in PDP, it was the right of the North to produce a president. I am in support of power rotation, so now that Northern tenure is expiring and President Muhammadu Buhari would be expected to leave power, it is normal for everybody to crave for power rotation to the South. I must also tell you that it is only the ruling party that can make the power shift to the South possible, other parties may not be able to accomplish that. Some past leaders who benefited from Nigeria are today prophesying doom for the country because of selfish interest. The records are there that the country was not in good state when they were in power, so they should not tell us there would be war in the country, if certain things are not done. What was your reception in APC like? You have forgotten where I was coming from. I was a candidate of PDP in the last general election. I joined APC as a leader from PDP, and as a leader, your responsibility would be to grow the people. I have been well received in APC because they knew it was a benefit for people like me to be in their party. I am coming to contribute my quota towards 2023. I have made it clear to people; I am not coming to run for position, or to take what belong to others. I am working for a new tomorrow, the next level of Nigeria, I believe is in 2023, so I am putting my best into it. You used to be critical of President Buhari’s government. Why the sudden change? Leadership is about good governance, not necessarily about political party. 70 per cent of the people in APC now, were members of PDP, and there was a conspiracy for APC to take over government due to impunity in the system then. Some people worked for APC to take over power in 2015, I mean some members of PDP worked for APC emergence. A lot of people were tired and worked against PDP. I must tell you that we were in the dark then but now we have seen the light. You cannot blame the President for appointing people he believe and is convinced would deliver for him. So the federal character may not be followed, but what cannot bend is the rotation of the presidency. Why did you form the TNN movement? It is a unity forum, based on power rotation. It is a platform that would guarantee rotation of power from the North to the South, and when that happens, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would be the best candidate to emerge as the president from the South. South-East can get its presidency in the PDP. I don’t want to talk about the turn of the South-East getting the president. Let us work together and fight for it, power is not served a la carte, it is gotten. While we are saying power should come to the South, people are still going to vote for their candidates during the presidential election, it cannot work because you cannot get your presidency based on sentiment. Right now there is no APC governor in the entire South-East States, so who is the region going to give power to? The South-East region is in a state of dilemma. We set up TNN to seek support for Tinubu, the same way we are going to support the North when the tenure of the South expires. Remember Tinubu has not declared his intension to contest for the presidency in 2023? Actually it is not for Tinubu to declare his intention to contest for the presidency in 2023 now; those that declared their intentions to contest for the presidency at an early stage had never realised their ambitions. When the time comes and he sees the crowd, he would come and declare. We need him to come and rescue us. The project is not for Tinubu to tell us he is going to contest; the project is for us to ask him to contest. The Northern Youths are implying that Tinubu was the brain behind Amotekun because of his presidential ambition. What is your view? Only mischief makers would link Asiwaju Tinubu with Amotekun. Tinubu would be contesting for the president of Nigeria and not president of Oodua Republic. Anyone insinuating Tinubu was behind formation of Amotekun was only trying to cause confusion in the country. Amotekun is a South West security outfit created to combat crime and other forms of insurgency in the region. Tinubu does not want to get involved which is why he has not spoken about the project. I can say that they are narrow minded to think in that line. The talk now is about amendment of the 2010 electoral Act toward the 2023 elections, what areas do you think need attention? Our agitation for electoral reforms is total it is not a cosmetic reforms. What we are clamouring for is to compel Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to go into electronic voting and electronic transmission of results. We want the body to have application software, where people can vote and register even in their homes. We don’t want any frustration to registering to vote, rigging starts during the registration process. People should be able to register in their bedrooms, if need be. There could also be centre for thumb printing, capturing etcetera. There could also be a process, where one can easily go to the application of INEC, get serial numbers where one can vote and be recognized. This issue of deploying National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members to polling units, exposing their lives to danger should stop. Funds would also be saved; spending billions of naira to conduct elections would not come in. People would go about their businesses and vote at their convenience. The world is now global world village, citizens can vote from anywhere in the world. 