ABUJA – Twenty five years after the nation sank a whopping $25 billion into it, the upper chamber of the National Assembly has mandated its committees to investigate the poor state of Nigeria’s refineries. The senate noted that even when the sum of $25 billion had be spent in the last 25 years, the refineries are still moribund. The decision to investigate the poor state of the refineries followed a point of order 42 and 52 raised by Yusuf Abdullahi Yusuf (Taraba), tagged, ‘The Moribund Refineries in the Country’. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The senate mandated its Committees on Petroleum, Upstream/Down Stream and Gas to carry out an oversight on the Nigeria refineries and report back. It also resolved to investigate the non-optimal performance of the refineries, urging the NNPC to do total overhaul of the facilities. In his remarks, the president of the senate, Ahmad Lawan, who presided over the plenary, said, “Committees are to investigate the turnaround maintenance carried out by the NNPC and ascertain their current state.” Leading debate on the motion earlier, Senator Yusuf noted that billions of dollars have been spent on turnaround maintenance of the refineries, adding that the oil companies still faced total collapse. He said: “There is negligence on the part of the NNPC,” Yusuf said of the non-functioning refineries. Commending, mover of the motion, Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central), said one of the problems the country was facing was lack of maintenance culture. He said it was not the first time attention was drawn to the near collapse of the refineries in the country and urged his colleagues to do a thorough job during the investigation process. He said: “Oil should be a blessing to us but in Nigeria, it makes a lot of establishments lazy. We should be concerned about it. “The refineries are bad and people are now taking the crude outside the country and bringing back refined product to the country on exorbitant prices. “The downstream committee should critically look at the problem. $25 billion went down the drain in turnaround maintenance of the refineries in the last 25 years.”