Three persons have been arrested by the police in Ogun State for allegedly stealing a four- year-old child. Making this known on Sunday was Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Abimbola Oyeyemi, spokesman of the Police Command who gave the names of the suspects as Abubakar Saidu, 22; Danladi Abdulkarim, 30; and Abdullah Idris, 25. Oyeyemi said the suspects were arrested on January 24 by men of the Ogun State Police Command for stealing a four-year-old boy, Hammed Adeniran. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the arrest of the suspects followed a complaint by the mother, Nimota Adeniran, who reported at Warewa Police Station that she was alerted by one of her neighbours that her son was sighted with three strange men at Arepo bus stop along Lagos Ibadan Expressway where they were waiting to board a vehicle to an unknown destination. He said that upon getting the information, she started looking for her son only to discover that he is no longer where he left him. “On the strength of the report, the DPO Warewa Division Superintendent of Police (SP), Folake Afeniforo, quickly mobilised a team of policemen and moved to the bus stop where the men were waiting to board a vehicle. “On getting there, the three men were met with the child in their possession and were promptly arrested with the help of members of the public. “On interrogation, the three suspects who claimed to have come from Jigawa State could not give any reasonable account of why the child was seen with them or why they wanted to a board commercial bus with the child and they were arrested. “The child has been reunited with his parents while the suspects are undergoing interrogation,” Oyeyemi explained. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for discreet investigation and possible prosecution. The CP therefore advised parents to always take the security and wellbeing of their children serious in order to shield them from those looking for every means to be rich.