Pastor Eze Nwachukwu Eze is the State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State. In this interview with SAMSON NWAFOR in ABAKALIKI, he explains the position of the Chapter in the persistent call for the removal of the party’s national Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. He also spoke on other issues such as why APC States’ Chairmen were not happy with how President Buhari made his political appointments, why they lost in Ebonyi in the last election and the processes the party is undergoing in Ebonyi for rebirth. Excerpts: APC on the calls for the removal of Oshiomhole from office? Ebonyi State APC is of the view that Oshiomhole should stay and our reason is very clear. We have not seen anything that should call for Oshiomhole’s removal. Most of States we have crisis is because of personal interests of some of our prominent party leaders. Personal interest deeply entrenched against the popular interest of the party in some states. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Our reasons also are premised on the fact that I was live just like party stakeholders in the national convention that produced Oshiomhole. It was clear that so many states were barred from coming into that convention, because of crises. As at that time, Oshiomhole had not been elected the Chairman of APC. When Mr. President was making his address, there were exchanges of blows in some states canopies. Oshiomhole was not the Chairman then. The implication is that, this young man, Oshiomhole, inherited a crises ridden system, which ordinarily should take some time for him to study the immediate and remote causes of such crises to see the way forward on resolving them. Immediately after he took over, remember there was a serious blow on the party; the defections of some Senators in the National Assembly. In fact, within 24hours of his assumption of office, if I’m right, it happened. That also threw a heavy and serious national challenge to the Party and even threatened the office of Mr. President. There was a serious national crisis that needed urged attention and he waded into the matter. Pleaded with them and by the grace of God, we were able to manage it and come out of it. As that was going-on, issues and crises from states arising from the outcome of congresses started throwing up. All were waiting for the same man to solve them. These things were happening within two or three weeks of his assumption of office as the national Chairman. Shortly after that, were the primaries that culminated into the elections. Even if it is Mohammed or Jesus Christ, it would not just be easy, because you are dealing with a democratic system and human beings are involved. And these human beings have a diverse interest to pursue and actualize. What do you think could be the cause for these persistent calls for his sack? These calls, as an active player is coming from one segment, one zone, predominantly the North Central. I don’t know whatever their interest may be, but I know that whoever that is asking Oshiomhole to go, does not love this party. Such a person may be in this party in pretence. The person has another agenda. That is why some of us, who have never in our political lives, been in any other party that is not opposition, until the merger. We knew what we passed through. We know what crisis is all about. We don’t want to live like PDP that kept changing national Chairman after every election. APC wants to set a standard. Oshiomhole should continue and complete his tenure and when his tenure is completed, negotiation can start if he is going second tenure or if any other person will come up. But APC has to do something different and Oshiomhole has also achieved a lot, within his short stay in office, despite these crises. He has achieved a feat. Today, the National Assembly is peaceful, and working in line with visions of the party and working to give Nigerians the best dividends of democracy. I saw Oshiomhole sat tight and other members of the working committee that day at the national Assembly, both at the Senate and the House of Representatives to ensure that the leadership approved by the party, that would work in line with visions of Mr. President and ideology of the party are elected. I give him kudos for that wonderful feat. Today, we have the most peaceful national Assembly as far as Nigeria political history is concerned. The national Assembly is now working assiduously and in time and Nigerians are happy for it. You can see this year’s budget was passed in time, something that has never happened. These are the achievements. He led the foundation. For the first time again, APC is taking Bayelsa State. That’s a wonderful achievement, despite all that happened. When they said APC had no candidate, he quickly went to the court, reversed the judgment. Today, we are in control of Bayelsa State, the home base of PDP and home of the former President. But are you comfortable with his style of leadership, taking into account what is happening between him and his successor, Governor Godwin Obaseki? Well, for me, my former colleague, the Chairman of Edo State and other states chairmen, wanted to wade into that matter to resolve it and restore peace. The Chairman, I quote him, openly told me and others that this battle is a fight to finish. It is either they bring Oshiomhole down or Oshiomhole brings them down. How could a state Chairman in a centre of crisis that needs peace in the state make such ut terances? That goes a long way to tell you that they are the people that are out for crisis and it is unfortunate. The national Chairman is our national Chairman. We all, elected him. He was not elected from Edo State alone. Their responsibilities are different. Though, it is one out of 37. He is in-charge of 37 States while the Governor is in-charge of one State. So, whatever are their differences or how the matter came up, for me, it has not gone beyond reconciliation and I call on both parties to open their hands and heart for reconciliation. The party can only achieve alot when we are together and at peace. Everybody has deserves mutual respect, including the Governor and the national Chairman. I call on those who are fuming this crisis to desist from doing that, because they are working to the detriment of the poor masses that would have been enjoying the benefits of both the national Chairman, being Edo man and having a seating Governor of APC in Edo State. Those mischief makers around any of them should desist from fuming this crisis and let us have peace. We learnt that States’ Chairmen of APC are not happy with the manner President Muhammad Buhari picked his Aides after winning re-election. How true is that? We have discussed it over and over. We have expressed our views, that it would not be right for us as men who were in trenches, came out of it and people who are not members of this party and who worked against this party be given appointments. The so-called Abuja politicians. Politics is local and those people whom we know locally should be accommodated. The Chairmen are not speaking for themselves alone. We are speaking for the interest of those at the local level, who worked to ensure that we won this election, that there is need for them to be rewarded. And we have been discussing this peacefully with the National Chairman and even with the presidency and he assured us. There is an exercise going on now between the office of SGF and the party. We believe them and hope that in no distant time, they would be through with the exercise and appointment would be equitably made to those who deserve it. Some Nigerians including prominent members of APC have predicted that APC will collapse at the end of President Buhari’s second term in office. Do you agree? The crisis in PDP is more. They are more divided than the APC. For us in the APC, I laugh when people say, APC will not outlive President Buhari. We are talking about vision. We are talking about party ideology and the Nigerians believe in us and President Buhari has come to lay the foundation, and another person in the APC will build on it. And that is the only way we can know that this administration has succeeded. I want to tell you that before 2023, I don’t think there will be anything called PDP in the real sense of it. It may be a political party name, but even now if you look at their members and the way they do things. The way they go about things, you can see their naivety and you can see the unseriousness in their actions. They are not ready for power. Nature has rejected them and Nigerians have rejected them. Ebonyi APC lost woefully in the 2019 general elections. What really happened? I have said it over and over that there was a conspiracy against our party, between INEC and the security agencies. Volumes of petitions we have written. Unfortunately, those people who are the cause of this our predicaments are the people these petitions were addressed to. They couldn’t do anything. But God has exonerated us and affirmed my opinion and complaints that there was massive rigging. It is now evident in the case of Chinedu Ogah, showing that APC really won Ebonyi State and not the other way round. A situation where the security agencies were doing their deployment from the Governor’s personal hotel made mess of everything. It was clear and we cried out and complained. It is the same set up of soldiers that worked here in 2015 that came back in 2019.The same posting. We had their numbers in 2015 and the same numbers were given to us in 2019, and the same places they worked in 2015, that was where they worked. To prove a point, the Governor quickly after the election, inaugurated a building in Ebonyi State University and named it after the Chief of Army Staff. Some of us are still questioning the rationale behind that. I am not against naming any structure after the Chief of Army Staff, Buratai, but the timing was questionable. There is this perception that the party’s governorship candidate contributed to its loss. Is it true? Our failure was not because the people don’t love our party. You can see even the votes that APC secured was five hundred times more than what it was in 2015. That shows the level of achievements, both in the Governorship and Presidential and till date, the party is still intact. All our stakeholders are still together. That is to tell you that our mandate here was robbed. Throw it a free and fair election, PDP will lose here. But they said he did not show any seriousness in the contest? Our guber candidate was serious. If he was not serious, how was he able to garner hundreds of votes in the election? I have told you that INEC and security agencies compromised. The process that produces a candidate in an election is very clear, you vote and votes are counted and it happened in Ebonyi State APC. Out of the nine Guber Aspirants, one emerged. The question of whether the candidate was serious or unserious should be directed to the candidate, because he will be in a better position to let you know. So, how are you preparing to face future elections? Time in itself is unfolding, and we have to follow the time. So, I can’t just tell you now, for public consumption, what our strategies are. That will amount to opening up our strength to our opposition. But I just want to tell you that out party is going through the processes of rebirth currently and we shall stop at nothing until we flush out the bad legs in all the Wards and Local Government Area. That’s what we are doing now. There are people in the party who destabilized and worked against the interest of the party during the election. We have taken time to identify them, trace certain things that happened to them and I want to assure you we shall show them the exit door. We shall not condone any form of anti-party activities. Those who are involved must be punished. When we have sanitized the system in no distant time, the whole Nigeria will begin to hear us and our activities as usual. A member of SEC, precisely the Welfare Secretary, Mr. Ernest Nwaze, recently accused you of embezzling the party’s fund, totaling N21m. How true is the claim? The claim is false and I laugh, because the man that wrote that petition is from Uburu, he is one of the Governor’s kinsmen. His brother is an aide to the Governor; I mean his immediate blood brother, the same father and the same mother, one Nwaze Francis. His own name is Nwaze Ernest. It is the extension of the anti-party activities he did during the just concluded election. I told you here that those who did anti-party activities would be flushed out. He crooked up such allegations because he saw the direction the party was going and he is culpable. But I want to assure him and the rest of them in that clique, predominantly from the Southern part of the State, who betrayed our party, and some appointments have been given to them which they give to their siblings by the Governor to thank them for a job well done. We have their records. We have their names. He knows and every party stakeholder in the state knows that the money we got, N21m was used for the election and equitably disbursed to the local government Area and each LGA and candidates for the election from such LGA acknowledged in writing, the receipt of such money and he knows. So, how would he turn over night, if not that he saw that the party is coming after him? He just wanted to create a sort of confusion in the party, but I want to assure him and all of them that are involved that we are focused. We are more intelligent even more than the system and themselves. Before they started running, we are already at the end waiting for them and they cannot escape it. A committee has been set up to investigate those allegations and make recommendations. They also know that the Constitution is clear, about anybody who took action that is capable of dividing the party or cause crisis, such a person is liable to some punishment. So, it is a two way thing. If at the end, he couldn’t prove his allegations, he is not going away free. He knows that and that is why they are running helter-skelter. So, we are watching and laughing. This particular petition, the national leadership and zonal leadership are already aware. I have informed them and equally sent copies to them and the appointment letters of the committee set up by SEC. They are all aware. They are waiting for the outcome of the committee as constituted, in line with parry’s Constitution.   