The Federal Government may be seeking a more comprehensive approach to the country’s security challenges after resolving on Thursday to henceforth lay more emphasis on collaboration amongst security organs and all tiers of government, as well as with the larger Nigerian society. This was part of the decision of the quarterly Security Council Meeting in which President Muhammadu Buhari met with all security chiefs at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, to review the current security situation. The National Security Adviser (NSA), retired Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno, who briefed State House correspondents after the meeting, said they got a directive from the president urging the various security arms to collaborate more often in checking crimes and criminality. The meeting, which held at the Council Chambers in Abuja, was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinabjo; the service chiefs; Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi; Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammadu Dingyadi; Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari; DG, DSS, Yusuf Bichi, and DG, NIA, Rufai Abubakar The NSA, Monguno, speaking after the meeting, disclosed that the meeting did an appraisal of the current security situation and resolved to seek collaboration with a wide spectrum of Nigerians to deal with the situation. “We reviewed the current situation, the opportunities, and the challenges, and we arrived at the conclusion that we need collaboration with the larger Nigerian society to deal with the situation,” he said. The NSA, who described the security challenge as “multi-dimensional”, noted that there were internal and external dimensions which required the cooperation of all Nigerians to be dealt with effectively. He added: “There is need for both parties to collaborate to deal with it right down. “We can’t disclose anything on collaboration right now until the issues are looked at. It requires everybody to work together.” Monguno was, however, silent on the call for the declaration of a state of emergency on security, as well as the call on the president to sack the service chiefs. “Those issues were not part of what we discussed,” he stated. The meeting came amidst calls by the National Assembly that the presidency should sit up in order to tame the monster of insecurity. Recall that President Buhari had been called upon to remove the service chiefs who were believed to have under-performed and stayed beyond their tenure. The president had cause to complain recently that attacks on Nigerians by bandits was becoming unbearable and was taking its toll on the citizens. Buhari had also insisted that he would become more hardened in dealing with the situation. According to Monguno, “The meeting basically made an appraisal of the current security situation in the country and took a look at the possibilities, the opportunities available to government in addressing most of the recent challenges. “There were discussions and at the end of the day, the most important thing that we came up with is the need for collaboration both between governmental agencies and the larger Nigerian society because of the type of insurgencies we are faced with, the complexities, the multiplicity of all kinds of issues. “There is a need for both parties – governmental agencies on one hand and the larger society – to collaborate more vigorously. There is a need for us to deal with these problems in a comprehensive manner. “Therefore, council has decided to take a closer look at issues that will help us not just at the federal level or at the state level, but right down to the local government level. But this is going to be done after due consultations with the relevant stakeholders. “I want to think that everybody understands the need for a whole government approach in collaborating with the whole of society to achieve a lot. “This situation requires everybody in the country to work together to deal with these challenges. So, where there are gaps we need to close these gaps. That is what I mean by collaboration.” Notably, President Buhari has not removed any of his service chiefs since they were first appointed in 2015 despite reports that their tenure expired in 2018, having reportedly put in their mandatory 35 years. President Buhari had, on July 13, 2019, extended the tenure of the service chiefs, including the Chief of Defence Staff, Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, a Lieutenant General; Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, and Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas, by another six months.