The world will have to wait until next week for what could be the only definitive account of how Carlos Ghosn managed to leave Japan months before he was due to stand trial for alleged financial misconduct. The former Nissan chairman who fled the country to Lebanon while out on bail, will speak to the media in Beirut next Wednesday, media reports said, in a public appearance that could provide answers to myriad questions swirling around his daring escape. Few countries will be monitoring Ghosn’s comments more closely than Japan, where his work to turn around Nissan earned him something of a saviour image. The official response in Japan has been a mixture of condemnation – including by his own lawyers – and disbelief that a high-profile suspect under strictly monitored house arrest could have fled overseas, apparently without a passport, The Guardian reports. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ghosn was carrying one of his two French passports when he left Japan, according to a Japanese media report. Public broadcaster NHK said the court had allowed him to keep a second French passport as long as it was kept “in a locked case” with the key held by his lawyers. The most widely circulated account of his escape – that he was carried out of his Tokyo residence in a wooden case for a musical instrument and spirited out of the country on a private jet from Kansai International airport in western Japan – has been challenged by his wife, Carole Ghosn. She described the account as “fiction” on Wednesday, but declined to provide details of her husband’s exit. Japan’s government is yet to publicly comment on Ghosn’s escape, news of which broke as millions of people left Tokyo and other major cities to spend the New Year holidays in their home towns. Ghosn led TV news bulletins earlier this week, but most viewers were glued to their screens for the annual red-and-white singing contest, celebrity variety shows and, on Thursday, the start of the Hakone Ekiden long-distance relay race. “When I saw the news I thought, if you have the money you can do anything you like,” said Chiaki Kurimoto, a part-time worker in Osaka . “It’s just like a spy movie. I still can’t come to terms with how he managed to get out of Japan like that. He made the security authorities look silly. “I’d been following Ghosn’s struggle with his former Nissan colleagues and was looking forward to seeing how it played out, but his escape means the story has ended prematurely.” Rui Morimoto, a 20-year-old university student, said he was disappointed that the man credited with rescuing Nissan from near-bankruptcy two decades ago had decided to flee. “Ghosn said he had done nothing wrong and was seen as a business hero, so he should have taken on his accusers fair and square in court.” While some sections of the Japanese media had expressed sympathy with Ghosn over his long detention before he was released on bail for a second time last year, newspapers were united in their condemnation of the former auto executive’s latest actions. “Running away is a cowardly act that mocks Japan’s justice system,” said the conservative Yomiuri Shimbun – a sentiment shared by the liberal Tokyo Shimbun.