LOKOJA – Mrs. Falilat Abdulrazaq, the Head of Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Unit in Kogi, has said no fewer than 62, 160 beneficiaries have been captured in States under the Federal Government’s CCT Household Uplifting Programme (HUP). Abdulrazaq disclosed this at a three-day Step-down training programme on Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Household Information Update, organised for all the 294 Cash Transfer Facilitators (CTFs) from all the 21 local government areas of Kogi State. She said over 27, 000 beneficiaries were recently added to existing figure making it a total of 62, 160 indigent households on their database, who would be receiving N10, 000 from the federal government every two-month for the household uplifting program. She noted that the CCT programme, which had been in operation in Kogi for three years, was put together by the present administration to address poverty at the households’ level. “It is targeted at uplifting the lives of the poorest of the poor and the vulnerables; that is why it is referred to as the household uplifting program. “The first major objective is to improve household consumption, improve enrollment and retention in schools. “To ensure that children from age 0 to 5 in Kogi State have access to quality healthcare, and ensure that the beneficiaries have sustainable source of livelihood when they exit the programmme. “Beneficiaries have saved money to build houses for themselves, established businesses and empowered themselves through the programme. “It has been quite impactful and helpful to the beneficiaries; it has uplifted a lot of them from poverty,” she said. She, however, advised the CTFs to pay rapt attention and listen very well and ensure that they deliver what was expected of them on the field. The Resource Person, Adams Muhammad, Enrollment Officer, National Cash Transfer Office (NCTO) Abuja, said the step down training was simply to train the CTFs on information update of the beneficiaries on the field. “When the information of enrollment of beneficiaries are updated, it gives them the opportunity to benefit from all the CCT packages. “At the end of this three-day training, we expect the CTFs to be able to use KoboCollectApplication effectively, which is an application that is used to update the household information,” Mohammad said.