Zenith Bank, one of the frontline banking institutions in Nigeria, has stated that it spent over N3billion to build a one thousand capacity free car park for its numerous customers and the general public while others commercialise theirs. The bank added that it has, so far, spent over N4billion to build five megawatts power station as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to its host communities. Mr Ebenezer Onyeagwu, the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (GMD/CEO), made the disclosures when top management of Independent Newspapers Limited, publishers of Daily Independent, Saturday Independent and Sunday Independent titles, led by its Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief, Mr Steve Omanufeme, paid a courtesy visit to the bank in Lagos recently. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “At back of the headquarters, we spent over N3billion on the construction of a car park. It has capacity for almost 1000 cars. We are spending close to N4billion to build five megawatts power station. It is discipline that has helped us.” Onyeagwu told his visitors. According to him, the infusion of strong values, creativity, innovation and of course, ethics of the business as well as vision crafted by the founding father of Zenith Bank from inception have helped to sustain the uniqueness of the financial institution. “What is important is about building the organisation; the credit for the growth and prosperity, achievement and performance goes back to the founder. “He crafted the vision and was able to assemble the right people who shared the vision and ensured brilliant execution of the vision. “In the process, he infused very strong values and system; you talk about hard work and ethics; about innovation and creativity. You have everything built into the system. “And because of the values and ethics we were able to build the institution, and you cannot afford to misstep the values that are so strong. When you begin to misstep, you will fill it and the system will checkmate you. “We believe the organisation will continue to grow because of the ethics and values put in place. “We thank you for recognising the contributions we are making. It remains our goal impact society; we have done a lot like ICT centres in various tertiary institutions,” said the GMD. The Zenith Bank boss, however, contended that the Bank led the introduction of digital and online as well as the use of alert into the banking sector’s services delivery. Responding, Mr Omanufeme applauded the bank for its giant strive in bringing revolutionary changes to the entire banking industry in Nigeria, and its sterling performances in its Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives. He said the Award Planning Committee of Independent Newspapers Limited was pleased with the unique position the bank is currently occupying in the banking industry, and the financial sector of the economy at large, thus the need for the visit which, according to him, is to partner with the bank in the newspaper’s new growth initiatives. “On behalf of my team, I am impressed by your scorecard especially in the area of your CSR initiatives and several innovations you have brought to bear in the banking industry. “We are quite impressed by your achievements. Looking forward, we hope that this visit would reinvigorate the relationship between the two organisations”, he said. Omanufeme, however, thanked the management of the bank for opening its doors for the epoch-making visit which believes would transience to mutual benefits for both organisations.