Yenagoa – Top golfers including General Ibrahim Haruna (rtd), Life President of Nigerian Professional Golfers Association; Joe Gadzama, a legal luminary, and King Alfred Diete-Spiff, the monarch of Twon-Brass, have lauded Governor Seriake Dickson for his foresight and commitment in establishing the Bayelsa State Golf Course. They spoke on Saturday at the inaugural tournament and commissioning of the sporting and recreational facility in Yenagoa. Speaking as Chairman of the Occasion, General Haruna described the 18-hole golf course as world class with capacity to generate employment opportunities and revenue for the state and called on succeeding governments to take the investment seriously. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said, “This is a money spinner and if I may say so, in the future it will make much more returns than it will get from the stock exchange. We should keep the vision on and develop it because it is something that will be beneficial to every body from the lowest man in the social strata to the elite.” On his part, Joe Gadzama commended the governor for translating the noble dream to reality and assured that he would do everything within his reach to ensure that the objectives that inspired the crucial  project are achieved. According to him, “This is a dream come true because going through memory lane I remember how my good friend told me he wanted to build a befitting golf course in Bayelsa when he was elected governor. “And one thing we must remember is what has come to play on this golf course, which is merit. When he made me a member of the sports committee, I advised that the chairman, King Diete-Spiff should come with me to see what has happened in Ilara Mokin in Ondo State.” In their separate remarks, the Chief Advisor on Investments to the Governor, Funkazi Koroye-Crooks and a representative of the contracting firm, Jeff Bruster, noted that the Golf Course would go a long way in attracting investors and tourists to the state. According to Bruster, the golf course has its irrigation fully computerized with 22 kilometers of drainage pipe, 17 kilometers of wiring between the sprinklers among other components. Dickson expressed appreciation to the professional golfers who came from within and outside the country to participate in the inaugural tournament  and commissioning ceremony in his honour. The governor, who noted that he drew inspiration for the project from the IBB Golf Course and Country Club in Abuja, specially thanked Senator David Mark and the Chairman of the State Traditional Rulers Council, His Royal Majesty, King Alfred Diete-Spiff for their support and encouragement. Highlights of the ceremonies include the commissioning of the Golf course and ceremonial tee-off by Governor Dickson which was witnessed by professional and amateur golfers from South Korea, Ghana, Cameroon, Gabon and Nigeria.