ABUJA – Federal Government, on Thursday, decried the rising cases of sub-standard and shoddy jobs executed by contractors in various rural agricultural projects across the country. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the interactive meeting with project contractors in Abuja, Dr Abdulkadir Mua’zu, Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development warned contractors to desist henceforth the delivery shoddy jobs and ensure that they abide by the contractual agreement. Mua’zu observed with dismay that project execution had been replete with poor quality of delivery, use of sub-standard materials, unqualified personnel and compromised specifications, among others. According to him, “You will bear me witness on the poor quality of project executions being experienced in our previous works, goods and consultancy contracts emanating from the use of sub-standard materials, unqualified personnel and  compromised specifications. “Contractors these days no longer pay strict adherence to quality and standard of project delivery, terms and conditions of contracts, timely submission of all the necessary and required documents according to the contract specifications and employment of services of qualified and experienced personnel for proper contract execution. “These and others are part of the issues we need to address for the good people of Nigeria to enjoy dividends of democracy for increased agricultural productivity and other economic activities in our rural communities.” The Permanent Secretary reminded the contractors that the public funds released for the execution of the projects were borrowed by the government, adding that their children and children’s’ children would bear the brunt of repayment of the loan. He reiterated the irrevocable commitment of the present administration in ensuring food security and self-sufficiency in food production, adding that the budget of the Ministry for 2018 was released 100%. “No government in the last 10 years has funded agriculture like this government.  Mr President is not committed to this Ministry because he wants to throw money at contractors or enrich them; rather he is doing it because this sector holds the key to economic diversification, job creation, poverty alleviation and economic development.” “In 2018, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development was the only Ministry that got 100 per cent budget releases. Besides, a significant amount of money was received from international donor agencies,” he said. While appealing to their emotions and conscience, Mua’zu told them that almost all of them are either Christians or Muslims, adding that they should eschew corrupt practices and fear God in all their dealings.