AWKA – The police have quizzed eight persons in connection with the demolition of the residential building belonging to 104 -year-old Mrs. Margaret Onwuelo of Nnewi. The suspects Mr. Ebuka Ileka, Chief Afam Obielosi, Mr. Charles Onyeka, Mr. Emeka Okafor, Mr. Pat Nwosu, Mr. Okey Nwaizugbe, Mr.  Okafor and Mr. Uzochukwu Ojukwu, Benjamin Akamelu were quizzed following a petition written to the Inspector-General of Police by Mrs. Onwuelo’s counsel,  J.O. Asoluka, SAN. Recall that the perimeter fence and bungalow house belonging to Mrs.Onwuelo were demolished early January by hoodlums and a bulldozer over a land tussle involving her and family members. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mrs. Onwuelo had said that she and her husband, late Chief Edward Onwuelo, bought the said land in 1953 at cost of 50 pounds but some people in collaboration with her family members want to take over the land following the death of her eldest son. According to the Petition entitled, ‘Criminal Assault, Trespass, Threat To Life And Unlawful Demolition Of Property of Mrs. Magret Onwuelo,’ the Inspector General Police was called upon to speedily rise up to investigate and bring all the culprits to book and stop a well-known Nnewi business man from using his influence and might to intimidate Mrs. Onwuelo. The petition reads in part, “The attack was sudden, grievous and spontaneous resulting in the wanton damage to the person and property of our client. It is important to note that there was no previous existing land dispute between our client and Mr. Ibeto to warrant any such action. “It is also worthy to observe that there is no Court Order or approval of any legimate existing authority authorising the demolition of our client’s property other than resort to self help, impunity and arrogance to permanently deprive our client of her property contrary to law and order. “Our client through her relations contacted the Police Force Headquarters, Abuja, Anambra State Police Command, Awka, and Area Command Nnewi to enquire whether any approval was given to carry out such demolition on behalf of the state. The Police confirmed that they are not aware of any such authority given to any individual to demolish the property of our client. Going further in the Petition, J.O. Asoluka (SAN) alleged that Mr. Cletus Ibeto confirmed that he directed and personally led in the destruction of his client’s property adding that he also confirmed that he instructed the thugs to beat up any person who tried to stop them. DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt that following this, Ibeto allegedly stormed the Force Headquarters over the matter.