LAGOS – Telecoms giant, MTN Nigeria yesterday announced the formal discontinuation of its legal action against the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. This follows the decision of the AGF to refer the matter to the relevant regulatory authorities. MTN Nigeria, which appeared before the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos applied to have the legal action struck out, which request was duly granted by the court. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In a statement issued by the network and signed by Uto Ukpanah, Company Secretary, said the action is line with the response to the withdrawal of the case by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. “MTN Nigeria remains committed to meeting its fiscal responsibilities and contributing to the social and economic development of Nigeria,” part of the statement read. Earlier this month, the attorney general had withdrawn a demand for around $2 billion in back taxes in the latest step towards resolving its legal woes with the authorities. It would be recalled that the telecommunications firm battled back a string of financial claims from Nigeria and last May floated its shares on the stock exchange in the West African country. The company said that the attorney general’s office had “withdrawn its letter of demand” for the back taxes and referred the matter to the Inland Revenue and customs services to be resolved. MTN Group CEO Rob Shuter, had in a statement said appreciated the decision of the Attorney General which paved the way to an orderly and amicable resolution of this matter MTN, which began operation in Nigeria in 2001, is the country’s largest operator with some 60 million subscribers. The company last year settled a $1.5 billion fine levelled by the authorities for failing to disconnect unregistered subscribers. In 2018 it agreed to pay a separate $53 million fine after being accused of illegally repatriating $8.13 billion to South Africa. The disputes with MTN have rattled investor confidence in Africa’s most populous nation and tarnished diplomatic relations between continental powerhouses Nigeria and South Africa. MTN instituted the suit on September 10, 2018, to challenge the legality of the AGF’s assessment of its import duties, withholding tax and value-added tax amounting to N242 billion and $1.3 billion. Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court in Lagos has adjourned hearing on a $2 billion tax suit brought against MTN Nigeria by the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, until January 30 and 31, 2020. MTN instituted the suit on September 10, 2018, to challenge the legality of the AGF’s assessment of its import duties, withholding tax and value-added tax amounting to N242 billion and $1.3 billion.