Asharami Synergy Plc, a petroleum distribution company has filed a winding up petition before a Federal high court sitting in Lagos against Med-View Airline Plc, over the inability of the airline to pay a debt of N43.5million. In a particulars of indebtedness accompanying the petition, Asharami Synergy Plc alleged that it supplied Med-View Airline Aviation fuel for the period January 2018 to August 2018 totaling N43.5million. The debt became due for payment by 31st of August 2018 following which the petitioner made various demands and the airline promise to pay but could  not. The parties held a meeting where it was agreed that by 28th February 2019, the Airline will pay the entire sum. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network After the meeting, Jenifer Ugorji of Retail Sales and Marketing Department of the oil company sent an e-mail to the Airline’s Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director, Alhaji Muneer Bankole on the resolution of the meeting, but he did not respond. Ugorji then sent another e-mail to Serifat Olajide an accountant in the employment of the Airline, she responded that the managing Director was out of the country, promising that as soon “as he comes back the Airline will commence payment of the debt.” Thereafter,the respondent paid a paltry sum of N500,000.out of the outstanding sum of N43.5million. Following the inability of the Airline to pay the debt the petitioner briefed the law firm of Le Pestro Solicitors to demand for the  payment of the  debt due. Besides that, the airline failed to liquidate its outstanding indebtedness to the petitioner till date. The petitioner also stated that the outstanding indebtedness of the Airline to the petitioner is colossal and has continue to attract interest and hardship to the petitioner. Consequently, the respondent is insolvent and unable to pay its debts. The petitioner therefore humbly prays as follows : That MED-VIEW AIRLINE PLC RC 604313 be wound up by  the court under the provisions  of section 409(1) and 410(1)(b) of company and allied Matters Act cap C20 laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.)