ASABA – Delta State gov­ernor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has de­clared that Chief Great Ogboru, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last gubernatorial election in Delta State cannot rule the state, at least not for now. The governor, in tears of joy, at an inter-denomination­al thanksgiving service short­ly after the reaffirmation of his electoral victory by the Supreme Court, Abuja, said hands of God are not with Ogboru. While offering thanks to God over his victory at the Supreme Court, against his rival in the March 9 guberna­torial election, Chief Great Ogboru, Okowa called on his erstwhile opponent to join his administration to build a stronger state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “God took us throughout the Election Tribunal, Appeal Court and now the last court – Supreme. It is not about me (Okowa), but it is about Delt­ans” “My brother thought he could truncate Delta arrange­ments, but God did not allow him. That somebody from Delta North became governor is by the arrangement for the peaceful coexistence of the state. It is time to work for Deltans to achieve our desire goal. I appeal to my brother Ogboru, that the time has come to join us and bring his idea to table. “It is time to partner to­gether to do the best that we can for our people. May be it is not yet time for him to be­come governor, but that does not stop him from contribut­ing his quota from outside.” At the event, the Chair­man, Nigerian People’s Con­gress (NPC), Mr. Mamuzu Geberial, who congratulated Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on his victory at the Supreme Court, described it as a victo­ry for all Deltans. He urged the governor to be magnanimous in victory, knowing full well that the people are the true owners of democratic powers of which such powers are transient. “As the chief steward of the state, we pray the gover­nor to extend a good hand of fellowship, decked with the spirit of sportsmanship to all,” he said People Democratic Party (PDP) loyalists, including those from opposition parties, stormed the new Government House, Asaba to celebrate with him.