Mr Ganiyu Musa, the Group Managing Director (GMD), Cornerstone Insurance Plc, in this media parley with select journalists in his office recently, discoursed about the economy, insurance industry and his organisation. CHRIS EBONG was there. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the business terrain vis-à-vis the economy in the year 2019? The market has been so difficult, especially at the macro level where there is still extreme poverty; people are still finding it difficult to make ends meet. That notwithstanding, we are all here today, it is a testament to God’s favour irrespective of what the economy may hold. For that we all have cause to be grateful. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Of course, insurance is the integral part in the overall economic construct of the country. We are as much affected as the other sectors. Yes, we know that for the fact that the country is just exiting a brutal recession which ended in the initial part of 2017 now seen as the evidence of the foundation for a durable growth even though that growth is still very slow, considering the fact that prior to the recession Nigerian economy was growing on the average of about 10per cent. The fact that we are now down to a little over 2per cent, yes one has to see as a glass that is half-full or half empty. But clearly we see the positive in the trajectory if we are coming down from the negative now to the positive territory even though there are warning signs that the growth is still fragile. And we had conversation now moving from …getting larger and louder that the downside risk is still significant that policy decisions need to be made quickly to ensure that the country does not go again into the recession zone. We have seen the pressures at our forex market, we’ve seen the level of inflation rising to about 11.8per cent now, even when the government’s objective is to bring it to a single digit, we’ve seen our foreign reserve declining, we’ve seen the debt stock piling up, we still have the situation where a number of state governments are owing on salaries. We are battling with the N30, 000 minimum wage which the various state governments are unable to pay. As you know for us in insurance, insurance spend comes out from not necessary your total income but from the disposable income and businesses are not expanding. We have seen reports of potential downsising not only in the manufacturing sector but now in the financial sector, the banks are rationalising branches, and potentially also laying off staff. All these have significant implications for insurance and it is almost like burning the candles from both ends when you have a slowdown in the economy which affects the generation of insurable interest which in the contraction is affecting the growth of insurance premium and on the other hand the rise in inflation has it implications for claims inflation when you have a volume that is expanding, the most common to us is the vehicle insurance. The Toyota Corolla that we bought for N9milion a few years ago is now two times that price. What you find is the sum insured in the books when you try to devalue may certainly not catch up with inflation, against what? There is a claim. The headlamp that we used to buy for N50,000 two years ago is now about N90,000 which you have to pay even though the overall sum insured for the vehicle is not so you don’t tend to see that as being reflected in higher claims in inflation. So it’s a bit of challenging year coming from the global belt to an industry level as it were. Though, we do see some silver lining in the sea, the commitment of the government to expand, especially, in the area of infrastructure, in the area of agriculture, we have seen a significant development in transportations, we have seen people now travelling between Abuja and Kaduna who do not necessarily have to use their cars because the rail services is running and running very well.  It is comfortable, it’s safe and timely. We are patiently looking forward to the completion and commissioning of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, which will also give us additional visibility in terms of linking other communities and also linking commerce. We have seen development in agriculture coupled with the closure of border which has given way to patronage of some of the things we produce locally, like for instance, rice and other agricultural produce.  With that, there is an indication that there is light in the tunnel. It is a case of being able to take a short term pain in order to benefit from long term gains. In general, that is how I will characterise my take on the economy in global terms, and how potentially, it would affect insurance segment. What is the impact of the early passage of the 2020 budget on the economy given the timely passage this time around as against the practices in the past? I think it is very positive. For the first time in 19 years, we have our budget passed before the beginning of the fiscal year, it’s quite impressive. One of the problems we have in the past is that the government is the major participant in the economic activities of the country. So, when you have a budget that is not passed until the middle of the year, you have significant constraint on the ability of the implementing agencies to be able to implement because they don’t have the authority. So, the fact that everything is set earlier on, we expect that the government will now have a better chance for more diligent implementation of the budget. One of the issues we had in the past was not so much the budget itself but the implementation of the budget and the reason why it implementation has not been as successful as it should be. So, I see it as positive. Obviously, there are a number of insurance opportunities that are linked to either the direct government intervention in economic activities or just providing the enabling environment. One interesting thing is the Finance Bill which has now been taken as an integral part of the budget 2020. We have always complained about the provisions of taxation on insurance which has practically discriminated against the operators and put us where we are burdened in terms of the basis of computation of tax table, the business out goes that are traditionally allowed. It is indeed gratifying to note that the government has formed a very creative way to resolve it without necessarily going through the ordinary processes of amending the Companies Income Tax Act and most of the offensive provision in the Income Tax Act especially Section 16 which deals with taxation on insurance which has now been resolved before the passes of this bill. I think in the overall that has to be taken as positive for the industry. You spoke about high claims against high inflationary trend, how best is this managed by your company? For us, particularly at Cornerstone, the basic reason for existence of insurance company is to pay claims, especially from the point of view of the policyholders. It is when you are comfortable that you are able to pay claims, so you balance that also with the need to optimise value for stakeholders in your profit equation. In the elements you have the income side and then you have the expenses side. In the expenses broadly, you have a claim, but the other expenses too. We place a lot of emphasis on risk management which we have tried in the last few years to make significant improvement in our risk management infrastructure.  And our risk management now goes beyond claims management. It actually starts before you accept the business. This, you do together with the client to improve the overall quality of the risk and the safety record of the insured, that way you minimise the occurrence of the insured event. Not just a focus on managing the claims when it has happened. And it is something we are driving through the whole organisation. Not just in improving the risk management but the awareness of risk management by all the employees of the company. So, we start from things like your risk acceptance criteria, pre-loss inspection which practically generate opportunities and recommendations for improvement by the insured in terms of their…. Now it is not just in Cornerstone’s risk management procedures but clients risk management and the pricing of risk because claims occur when you have failure of risk management. So, if you focus on that, you are only trying to attack it from the grassroots. In addition to that, you try as much as possible to set economic pricing for your risk to make sure that the premium we charge is commensurate with the level of pricing that we are assuming. And where we feel that the equation is out of balance then we have a big decision to make. We have not been afraid to make these big decisions where we see that the risks are not economic. So that’s on the claims side. Insurance model, I always say, are two separate models running side by side. We have the underwriting model and investing model. So, where your insurance model is a bit challenged you make sure that you focus a lot more on your investing model. Typically insurance plays on a timing difference when you collect premiums from the insured and you have to pay claims, and what you are able to do makes a lot of difference as to whether you are running on a profit operation or not. So, we try to improve a lot of investment performance. Though, it doesn’t substitute a good underwriting performance and of course, you cannot continue to invest your way out of a perennial loss situation. These are the ups and downs that we normally have but a well-set up investment operation will help you mitigate the enhanced tensed situation. For us, we have taken drastic measures in investment and claims management trying to moderate our expenses. Yes! We know in this country it’s very difficult because the cost of doing business is very high but we find that creative ways of trying to get value for every naira that we spend and everything put together has put us on a strong path for profitability. Can you tell us about the performance of Cornerstone Insurance in 2019? You can recall that from 2016 to 2017, we had terrible financial results. It was very rough for us, but even in the midst of the turbulence we knew what was happening and why we had those results.  And we started work immediately to correct them. In the 2017 Financial Year we had an underwriting loss of N1.7 billion but because we had taken those steps that we needed to address those issues leading to that underwriting losses we were able to turn that around very quickly, so from N1.7 billion underwriting losses in 2017 we were able to turn it to an underwriting profit of N1.8 billion in 2018. And also in 2019 we’ve seen that continuing in our Q3 result. We posted a very strong underwriting performance in the cause of 2018 against the combination of some of the channels that we opened for business development with those things that I have just described in terms of approach to risk management, in terms of our cost control and importantly in terms of our investing activities. I think the last time we had this kind of conversation, I did mention that we had a very strong decisions which we felt we needed to do to ensure that we preserve a great value even though it meant that we had to take some short term pains. Two of such relate to the investment we made to our head office building. When the business model was developed even though the real estate market was already running flat or struggling that was just a temporary thing and we were there for a long term. We were committed to it, again when we developed the business model it was going to be financed with 50% equity and 50% debt. In fact, we did have some of the financiers but by the time we get to a stage where we could draw down on the debt we were passing through some rough patches. But the good thing is that because of the resilience that cornerstone is beginning to build on its finances, despite the fact that we could not access the debt that we were going for, there was no single day delay on the project. So we financed everything from owned resources. Cornerstone as a group put in more than N4billion of our funds into the project at the time when the industry was going through a very difficult period. And throughout that time there was zero impact on the fulfillment of any of our obligations. We continued to be on top of the market in terms of paying our claims and other obligations because we felt that it was something that made sense from a long term perspective. As an investment property, we made sure we pegged it at the top end of the market in terms of architectural design. 