ABUJA – The House of Representatives Committee on Air Force has commended the gallantry of the Nigeria Air Force for destroying terrorist logistics facility at Gujeri community in Borno State. In a statement issued on Saturday in Abuja, Chairman of the Committee, Hon. Muhammad Shehu Koko described the recent attack as a welcome development. He said the parliament will continue to support the Air Force in ensuring that Boko Haram Terrorists are completely wiped out of the country especially in the North East. “The House Committee on Air Force wants to use this medium to congratulate the Nigerian Air Force in carrying out a night time airstrikes executed on 31 December after series of intelligence and surveillance. “This is a sign of a new year in their operations in year 2020. “The Chief of Air Staff, Sadiq Abubakar has always proved to the country that the force is capable and will continue to carry out its assignment in the interest of Nigerians. “We hereby use this occasion to commend the operations of the force and promise to do all within our Constitutional powers to provide all the necessary equipment needed for the discharge of their duties,” Koko said. The chairman assured that the Committee under the watch of Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila will carry out its oversight functions diligently and efficiently. Recall that the Nigerian Air Force through his spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola in a statement issued on Friday said it’s “Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole had destroyed a Boko Haram terrorists logistics facility at Gujeri, in the Sambisa Forest of Borno State.” The statement further quoted the spokesman as saying that “the ISR missions identified some makeshift structures under some trees in the settlement that were being used by the terrorists to store fuel and other items for the maintenance of their vehicles.” However, the House Committee Chairman said he is optimistic that the Force will sustain the tempo in its fight in wiping out terrorist hideouts completely in Nigeria, especially in the North East region. While commending President Muhammadu Buhari for his undying support for the Force, the lawmaker urged residents of the North East to continue providing necessary information to help the force in its operations. “We will do all we can to ensure the welfare of the force and other sister security agencies is adequately taken into consideration,” he added.