LAGOS – With a solitary point from possible nine points in the Total/CAF Confederation Cup 2019/2020 competition, Nigeria’ Rangers International F.C have vowed to annex all three points at stake as they set to redeem their image when Mauritanian league champions, F.C Nouadhibou come visiting to ‘The Cathedral’, Nnamdi Azikiwe stadium, Enugu, this weekend. The coach Salisu Yusuf tutored side is fired up for the match day 4, Group A fixture after been held to a scoreless draw in Nouakchott, a fortnight ago by the coach Santiago Martinez wards. Midfield maestro, Chiamaka Madu, who missed mid-week’ NPFL win over F.C Ifeanyiubah through injury, in an exclusive chat said, “We appreciate the task before us in the continent and we have tasked ourselves to ensure we get all three points in this encounter against Nouadhibou in Enugu. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “With the level of preparation we have put into the coming game, I believe we will make our fans happy at the end of the match.” Captain of the ‘Flying Antelopes’, Temitope Olusesi said of the encounter, “Our continental match will be tough but we shall come out with the needed victory to put us back on track for a quarterfinal place. “No doubt, we have not started the group stage as we wished but we have come through the bad patch and focused for better things to come both in the domestic league and continental stage.” Coach Salisu Yusuf on his part said, “Since my coming into the team, we are gradually and steadily getting to play some good football but very unlucky in front of goals. “Nonetheless, we are working on this and I believe that we shall get it right against the Mauritanians as we have started getting our confidence back with the win on Wednesday in the NPFL” 10-man Rangers squad lost its first group stage match to Pyramids of Egypt 1-3 which was followed by a 4-2 loss to Al-Masry in Egypt on match day 2 before being held to a 0-0 draw by F.C Nouadhibou on match day 3 in Nouakchott. The visitors (32-man delegation) who flew into Nigeria, Tuesday and connected to the Coal city, Wednesday, have not done too well in the competition they are featuring for the first time since its formation in 1999, losing twice and earning a draw in one. Competition organizer, CAF has fixed the match day four encounter to kickoff by 5.00pm (17.00 hours) and will be handled by referees from Benin Republic led by FIFA badge referee, Adissa Abdul Raphiou Ligali.