LAGOS – For the people of Ondo State, 2020 is an election year as the incumbent, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu SAN celebrates his 3rd year in office come February, 2020. The irregular timetable for governorship election in the State is due to the tribunal battle between the late Dr Olusegun Agagu and Dr Olusegun Mimiko. The latter was victorious and the outcome permanently altered the political timetable of the State. As expected during any electoral process, political activities are already on the rise as various political parties, especially the major ones: APC and PDP, are galvanizing efforts and getting their arsenals ready for the contest. While the PDP may have a tough time to pick its candidate from among the 14 aspirants that have so far expressed their interests in the race, the house of the APC is struggling with a couple of internal hassles that have factionalised the party and torn its soul apart. The party’s problem started with the manner the incumbent; Governor Rotimi Akeredolu SAN managed his victory immediately he emerged as the flagbearer of the APC, and after he emerged victorious at the general election. He treated most of his co-aspirants at the primary election as enemies instead of embracing them and welcoming their ideas to develop the State. Also, he hijacked the party structure and positioned his foot soldiers as party officials at various levels of the party from the State to the wards. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network These misadventure by the Governor tore the party apart as aggrieved leaders and members broke away to form the Unity Forum which presently is the larger umbrella that accommodates all aggrieved members of the party. And with the calibre of members in the Forum under the leadership of a former Deputy Governor and present Board of Trustees member of APC, the Forum has practically become a rallying point for about 80% of APC members in the State. The fact that those who have expressed their intentions to run for the governorship have done so on the platform of the Unity Forum lends credence to the credibility and acceptability of the group. It is on record that party stalwarts like: Senator Robert Ajayi Boroffice, Chief Olusola Oke, Chief Bukola Adetula, Engineer Ife Oyedele, Ambassador Sola Iji and Jibayo Odimayo are all racing for the sole ticket of the party, all under the platform of the Unity Forum. But for the bad leadership style and maladministration of Governor Akeredolu, members of the party by now should be mobilising support with little stress for his second term in office. But as it stands, this appears as an uphill task as the Unity Forum apparently has the number and has become a force to contend with. This is more difficult now that the party at the National level had announced that it would only engage the direct primary option in conducting its future elections. Political observers have advised that in making the choice of who bears the flag of the party in the 2020 Governorship election, the party should be guided by certain factors and historical antecedents. Firstly, it is very important to note that the State has been operating on the principle of rotation since its return to civilian rule in 1999. While it is admitted that this is not an official practice it is incontrovertible that it guides the political operations in the State. From Adebayo Adefarati(1999-2003) to Olusegun Agagu(2003-2009) to Olusegun Mimiko(2009-2017) to Rotimi Akeredolu(2017 till date), this principle has been respected despite the fact that the governors were not of the same political party. From this highlights, the movement starts from the North to the South to the Central and back to the North where the incumbent, Rotimi Akeredolu hails from. Governor Adefarati could not make his second term because he was ousted by Olusegun Agagu. Likewise Olusegun Agagu could not complete his second tenure in office before Olusegun Mimiko took over from him. However, Olusegun Mimiko made history as the first civilian governor to complete the maximum of two terms in office as provided by the constitution. With these as the background and with the present level of our political development as a people, political pundits are in support of the clamour by the northern bloc that the zone should be allowed to complete its second term with or without the embattled Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. This it is claimed is in the spirit of fairness and equity. Looking at the Northern bloc at the moment, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu with his structure across the State in all the 18 Local Government areas seems to be aspiring for a second term in office. The 4+4 group consisting majorly of his political appointees is also working for him and he has the State funds to throw around to get things done. But most political analysts are of the opinion that he has a lot of hurdles to cross. His maladminisration, party members’ marginalisation and above all anti-party activities are burdens on his neck. Also on the list of those eyeing the governorship from the North is the Senator representing Ondo Northern Senatorial district and the Deputy Leader of the Senate, Professor Robert Ajayi Boroffice. In terms of credentials and pedigree, the veteran Senator Boroffice has all it takes to clinch the ticket and with his present relationship with the Abuja power bloc, he is an aspirant to watch out for. Another figure from the North is a member of the Unity Forum, Bukola Adetula, who incidentally is Governor Akeredolu’s kinsman from Owo. He ran and participated in the 2016 Gubernatorial primaries that produced Aketi as APC’s candidate. Being a second timer in the race, he appears to understand the game better and has resuscitated his structure across the State in readiness for the contest. He is the son of Pa ZOK Adetula (ZOKA), a foremost Awoist and protege of Late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. From the South, Chief Olusola Oke SAN, also seems not to be tired of running for governorship. He has the prerequisite political experience and sagacity to vie for the office. Also, Engineer Ife Oyedele is a new entrant in the race and a green horn too. He is believed to have built a financial warchest to slug it out with his co-aspirants. The Okitipupa born politician is new in the politics of the State. Comrade Sola Iji is a progressive of long history and currently serving as Nigeria’s ambassador to the Republic of Togo. He recently declared to run for the number one seat during one of Unity Forum’s meeting. The newest name and the youngest among the pack is Jibayo Odimayo, an Irele-born politician. He is also showing interest in the sole ticket of the party as he makes the move around the State to announce his entrance into the race. At the moment, no one has shown interest from the Central in the APC and this may not be unconnected with the respect for the principle of rotation. However, it must be made clear among all other things that if anyone eventually emerges from the Northern Senatorial district and goes ahead to win the general election to emerge as the first citizen of the State, he can only occupy the office for four years and cannot run for another term in office, this is in the spirit of rotation. It should be the turn of the Southern bloc after four years. The next few months in Ondo State are expected to throw up a lot of surprises as the race to the Alagbaka State house hots up, but at the end of the day the State shall remain as one with just one man as the Executive Governor.