ONITSHA – The police in Onitsha, Anambra State, have arrested a middle-aged man, names withheld, for allegedly killing pregnant wife for ritual purposes and throwing the corpse in another compound. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered from impeccable sources that the suspect, a resident of Obosi Street, Fegge, Onitsha, in Anambra State, was picked by the police for allegedly throwing the corpse of the wife from a five-storey building to a nearby compound apparently in a bid to muddle up investigations. Sources revealed that residents of the Obosi Street were on Thursday thrown into shock and disbelief when news of the incident spread that the husband of the deceased had been arrested in connection with the killing. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Inside sources said that the incident took place at about 10 p.m. on the fateful day in their flat. The husband was said to have earlier lost his first wife, in his former house as a tenant, on a mysterious circumstances, which prompted the landlord to issue him quit notice. On living in his new place, No. 9, Obosi Street, the suspect was said to have taken a salesgirl at the surgical equipment section of the Onitsha Bridgehead Market, where he has his shop as a wife. It was gathered that the deceased became pregnant but had a miscarriage under mysterious circumstances. The lover-boy, we gathered, had rushed to pay her dowry last December when the lady became pregnant again. However, it became worrisome following the news on Thursday evening that the lady was killed in her matrimonial home. Our source said, “In a bid to create the impression that she may have on her own committed suicide by falling from the fifth floor, the husband threw her corpse to the next compound from the fifth floor. “His plan was stalled when residents of the building where he threw the corpse into alerted police detective team from Fegge Police Station where he was arrested that night. “The police team searched the flat with the suspect (husband) who was arrested in the night of the incident the following morning and discovered massive blood stains in the flat indicating that she was killed inside the flat and thrown down from their flat,” our source said. Some residents of the street who pleaded anonymity told DAILY INDEPENDENT that going by the circumstances in which the man lost his first wife, miscarriage and killing of the second wife, it was clear that they were killed for ritual purposes. “He is a ritualist, if not how could these mysterious circumstances come up and finally he physically killed his wife who is pregnant and threw her corpse out from their flat,” they queried. “We learnt he was sent packing from where he was formerly living under mysterious circumstances and the same thing has happened here; he is a ritualist,” they alleged. Contacted, the Fegge Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Mr. Rabiu Garba, confirmed the arrest of the husband, adding that the case had been transferred to the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Bureau (SCIIB) for further investigation.