ABUJA – The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has reiterated its counsel to consumers on the safe use of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and other cylinders in view of recent explosions across the country involving the product. Mr. Osita Aboloma, the Director General of SON, who made the declaration  at the weekend, urged Nigerian consumers to patronise only SON certified LPG and other cylinders with necessary markings in order to safeguard their homes, offices and surroundings from avoidable fire incidents from substandard cylinders. Aboloma represented by Engr. Nwaoma Olujie, Group Head, LPG, warned importers of cylinders to adhere strictly to the SON procedures for the importation of the product, which according to him, is classified as life-endangering. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He restated the need for Consumers to look out for necessary embossed markings on all imported LPG cylinders as specified in the Nigeria Industrial Standard NIS 69:2013 such as manufacturer’s brand name, country of origin, test pressure, tare weight and SON Product registration number with prefix FA and year of manufacture. Aboloma advised users to also look out for SON Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) Logo and number on certified, locally manufactured Cylinders in addition to the markings specified for the imported products. According to him, the specified life span of LPG cylinders in Nigeria is 15years during which the cylinders must be re-qualified twice, after every 5years. He disclosed that SON has put in place a rigorous procedure for the certification of imported and locally manufactured LPG Cylinders for use in Nigeria to guarantee the safety and durability of the product. The SON Director General admonished Consumers of Cylinders to ensure proper handling of the product in transit as well as during use, while also adhering to necessary safety precautions. He warned all LPG dispensing Plants to ensure due certification of their vessels as provided by the SON Act, stressing that SON officers in the State offices across the country have been directed to inspect all LPG plants to ensure the certification or re-certification of all installed vessels as the case may be. The full weight of the law, he said shall be brought to bear on any plant and owner who fail to comply with this mandatory requirement of the SON Act. He commiserated with the families of the victims of the Kaduna gas explosion, saying the incident was avoidable, if all necessary precautions were adhered to by Gas Dealers. Also speaking, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, while receiving the SON delegation comprising the Acting Director Operations, Mr. Dauda Yakubu, expressed appreciation to SON management on the condolence. Aruwan assured of the Kaduna State Government’s preparedness to partner with SON and other Stakeholders for the benefit of the people. He restated the Government’s directive to shut down all gas retailing outlets in residential and high risk areas in the State, adding that a Committee has been set up to identify areas to relocate them for safety of lives and property.