Lagos – As dateline for registration for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASCCE) approaches many desperate intending candidates for the two examinations still besiege offices of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) across the country without success. It could be recalled that the two external examination bodies have recently included the National Identification Number (NIN) as part of requirements to be met by prospective candidates to be qualified to sit for the respective examinations. Though JAMB recently reported that about 40 per cent of the expected over 1.5million candidates have successfully been captured for the NIN. However, a visit to the Lagos State office of NIMC at Alausa showed that many candidates still experience difficulties in completing registration formalities as many that arrived the centre as early as 6.00 in the morning could not complete enrollment as at 5 pm, while others were not even attended to. A few that succeeded and completed the registration formalities and their documented printed told Daily Independent that they arrived as early 6.00 am before the office opens officially to get enrolled. As the situation in Kano State was not different, others that were not so lucky expressed disappointment in the whole process describing it as slow and uninspiring. However, in a chat with Mr Kayode Adekoya, NIMC Regional Coordinator said staff of the commission have been instructed to work till 7.00 pm to capture as many students as possible. According to him, preference was given to student registering for JAMB and WAEC between the opening hours till 4 pm, while the aged and people with challenges were attended to from 4.00 in the evening till 7. He disclosed that for Wednesday alone over 500 students had been attended to and appealed to others yet to be enrolled to keep calm and assured that staff will work round the clock to ensure that no student is left unrolled before the commencement or the end of registration for the two important national examinations. Corroborating the effort of the Regional Office, NIMC State Coordinator, Mr. Olumide Aremu affirmed that the process will not be altered as the commission also run on generators to ensure enrollment process is not interrupted. Two students that succeeded in the enrolment confessed to Daily Independent that the process was not easy having arrived at the since 6.00 am, saying it took them 11 hours to get enrolled. Others who were not so lucky and asked to come the next day appealed to NIMC to speed up the registration processes and alleged officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) of extortion and favouritism for some sets of people.