UYO – In its continued drive to checkmate smuggling of contrabands into the country, the Nige­rian Navy, Forward Operat­ing Base, Ibaka, Mbo Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State, has said it has again arrested 13 suspects and seized from them 2,053 bags of smuggled rice. Addressing newsmen on
Thursday, shortly before the handing over of the suspects and goods on Thursday
in Ibaka, Commanding Officer, FOB, Captain Peter Yilme, said the suspects were
ar­rested in two different oper­ations on January, 26 and 29, 2020 at about
0055 and 0615 hours respectively at the Un­yenge creek area. Represented by the
Base Operations Officer, Lieu­tenant Commander Kabiru Yusuf, Yilme who handed
over the suspects and 50kg bags of rice to the Deputy Superintendent of Nigeria
Customs Service (NCS), Garuba Hassan, said the arrests were made during a
routine patrol by Navy gun­boats. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Commanding Officer
maintained that the base would not relent its effort in putting an end to
illegalities on the waterway. He therefore advised
smugglers to desist from the illicit act. The arrests, according
to Yilme, were made within three days after five suspects and 98 bags of rice
were handed over to the NCS. His words, “On behalf
of the Commanding Offi­cer, FOB, Ibaka, I hand over 2,053 bags of seized rice
and 13 suspects to DSC KG Has­san of the NCS. “The arrest brings to fore the unrelenting
drive of the smugglers to continue their illicit acts. Nevertheless, the Base
will not relent in riding the waterways of all forms of criminal activities in
or­der for legitimate economic activities to thrive. “Smugglers are advised to turn a new leaf and
embrace legitimate business activi­ties. FOB, Ibaka appreciates once again, the
provision of necessary logistics to the Base by the Chief of the Na­val Staff,
Vice Admiral Ibok Ete Ibas. “Additionally, the Base
would not be achieving its operational mandate if not for the support and
encour­agement accorded it by the FOC Eastern Naval Com­mand, Rear Admiral
David Adeniran.”