Pope Francis called on governments around the world to ensure that their people have access to health care in his annual papal message for the World Day of the Sick. Francis said health institutions and government leaders should “not neglect social justice out of preoccupation for financial concerns.” “Jesus does not make demands of those who endure situations of frailty, suffering and weakness, but offers his mercy and his comforting presence. He looks upon a wounded humanity with eyes that gaze into the heart of each person. That gaze is not one of indifference; rather, it embraces people in their entirety, each person in his or her health condition, discarding no one, but rather inviting everyone to share in his life and to experience his tender love,” Francis wrote in the message. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Dear healthcare professionals, let us always remember that diagnostic, preventive and therapeutic treatments, research, care and rehabilitation are always in the service of the sick person; indeed the noun ‘person’ takes priority over the adjective ‘sick.’ In your work, may you always strive to promote the dignity and life of each person, and reject any compromise in the direction of euthanasia, assisted suicide or suppression of life, even in the case of terminal illness,” he continued. Francis offered thoughts for health care workers serving “in some contexts of war and violent conflict,” adding “in some areas, too, political authorities attempt to manipulate medical care for their own advantage, thus restricting the medical profession’s legitimate autonomy. Yet attacking those who devote themselves to the service of the suffering members of society does not serve the interests of anyone.” “It is my hope that, by joining the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity, efforts will be made to cooperate in ensuring that everyone has access to suitable treatments for preserving and restoring their health,” he continued. The message came a day after the pope shared a video on Twitter calling for “reconciliation” and “fraternity” among all people of varying faiths in the new year.