 ABAKALIKI – A married man, Mr. Ifeanyi Nwokwu, and his concubine, Mrs. Nkechi Ucha, have been found dead inside a room in the man’s compound at Umuezeoka Umueze in Effium, Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. A source from the community who preferred to be anonymous told our reporter that their corpses were found at about 8 p.m. Monday in one of the rooms of Ifeanyi Nwokwu’s newly built house, after a search by the wife. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A source alleged that the duo were killed and locked up inside one of the rooms. He further told our reporter that there were signs of injury on their lifeless bodies, making them to suspect that they might have been killed by unknown persons. “Both of them were found inside the man’s room dead. The room was looked up from outside. And looking at the corpses, you could understand that they were killed, because there were injuries on their bodies. “This is a worrisome development as this is not the first time we are witnessing this kind of ugly incident. Sometimes last year, a similar incident happened where armed robbers killed a young man in this same Umuezeoka Umueze Community and till now, the perpetrators of the heinous crime have not been brought to book,” he said. However, DAILY INDEPENDENT further gathered that prior to the incident, late Ifeanyi Nwokwu and another man identified as Mazi Ozoigbo, were allegedly battling over who would win the heart of the widow, late Nkechi Ucha whose husband died many years ago. Some persons have been arrested in connection with the incident including Mazi Ozoigbo, while their corpses have been deposited in the mortuary. The Ebonyi State Police Spokesperson, DSP Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident when our reporter contacted her, but said the details were still very unclear. Odah said she was still trying to get in touch with the Effium Divisional Police Officer (DPO) to get full details of the incident. Reacting, the Coordinator of Effium Development Centre, Hon. Sunday Agbo, described the incident as unfortunate. Agbo who sympathised with the deceased families urged the people not to take laws into their hands as security agents have waded into the matter. He called for a full investigation to unravel the circumstances that led to the incident. “The incident that led to the death of Ifeanyi Nwokwu and Nkechi Ucha is quite unfortunate. I sympathise with the families over their untimely death from such mysterious circumstance. “I also want to urge people not to take laws into their hands as security agents have waded into the matter, even as investigation is on top gear to unravel the circumstances that led to their death,” he said.