The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative of Association (NECA) yesterday said that the closure of the land borders by the Federal Government put the inflation rate at double digit in 2019. Dr. Timothy Olawale, the Director-General of NECA, in a statement stated that the economy also struggled with a growth rate average of 2 per cent in the first three quarters of 2019. Olawale pointed out that the closure of the land borders led to inflation in food supply, but noted that the economy had great potential for growth. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said more concerted and collaborative efforts with the private sector by the government could have made significant impact on the economy. On 2020 expectations, Olawale called for synergy between the fiscal and monetary policies of government, saying that only the monetary authorities had been in the driving seat of the economy. He averred that for any economy to fulfill its full potential, efficiency and synergy of the fiscal and monetary authorities was critical. He added: “Government should remain focused on implementing the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) as part of efforts to restore economic growth and expand the tax net to improve revenue generation, rather than focusing on tax increases that have remain burdensome to businesses. “Beyond the rhetoric of improved Ease-of-Doing-Business rating, we expect that greater effort would be made to reign in the excesses of some regulatory authorities, whose actions tend to stifle businesses, invariably increasing the unemployment rate. The Private Sector should be aggressively supported to create jobs through business-friendly policies and regulation.” On the Budget 2020, Olawale called for its full and timely implementation and early release of funds in order to stimulate the economy. He canvassed for the institutionalisation of monitoring mechanisms to gauge how well the budget would be implemented; stressing that special focus should be given to infrastructural development as enshrined in the 2020 budget. He urged the government to see the private sector as an engine of development and a worthy partner in the realisation of the Nigerian dream, noting that this was good for the country and the teeming populace. He also called for full and timely implementation of the budget and early release of funds in order to stimulate the economy. The NECA boss said that monitoring mechanisms should be institutionalised to gauge how well the budget was implemented. Olawale said: “Special focus should be given to infrastructure development as enshrined in the 2020 budget as this is the foundation for national development. “We expect that for the sake of our country and the teeming populace, government at all levels will see the private sector as an engine of development and a worthy partner in the realisation of the Nigerian dream. “The executive and especially, the legislature must facilitate an enabling environment for the economy to grow through business-friendly and citizen-focussed legislation for the betterment of our nation.”