Hon. Wumi Ogunlola, a lawyer, politician and gender crusader is a member of the House of Representatives, representing Ijero, EKiti West and Efon-Alaaye. In this interview with YAQOUB POPOOLA, she opines that men always create needless crisis among women folks to take advantage of them in politics. Excerpts: The APC led Federal Government has been severally accused of disobeying court orders. What is your take on this? Normally as a lawyer, I won’t subscribe to any form of court disobedience. Also from its nature, the law is supposed to be obeyed and it is no respecter of any person, regardless of your status. When it comes to disobedience to law or the legal apparatus, it is not only limited to the government. Things are in deplorable situations, talking about law and its disobedience. There are some laws, when it comes to the threat to unity of nation , you cannot take it with levity. But that doesn’t mean the person will not have access to his constitutional right. There are two ways to it. The person contravening the law should know there would always be a price for it. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Women are in the majority in Nigerian. But, we still complain of low representation of women in elective positions. Why is it so? Specifically, we have addressed Mr President on inclusion of women in government. That was the time he was trying to form his cabinet. It is an unfortunate situation in Nigeria. There was a time we were agitating for 35 percent Affirmative Action for equal representation, because we were talking about gender. God created man and woman one, one. If God had wanted man to be more, He would have created two men and one woman. When I got to the National Assembly, I moved a motion on ‘Making Up for a Short Fall of Elective Positions For Women’. Talking about the world population, majority are women. Unfortunately, because men got there before us, they are the ones managing affairs of government. They are taking the lead and because of the oppressive nature of men, women are not being given the privilege. This is somehow, especially for some of us who have been privileged to be in small position of authority. Things have not really changed. In fact, it is retrogressing. When it comes to representation, women are not being given what they deserve, even in elective or appointive positions. For instance, the time we used to complain of this at the National Assembly, we had over 20 percent. But now, it is zero point. In the Senate, we have six, House of Representatives 12. It is unfortunate and absurd, especially when we compare it to other countries. We can only hope and pray, that is the only solace. When efforts failed, normal thing is to resort to prayer. Is it true that the current National Assembly is a rubber stamp? Checks and balances in the roles of the arms of government is sacrosanct. Recently, Speaker for the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said he was not elected to fight the executive, but Nigerians have tagged the 9th Assembly as ‘Rubber Stamped’. They expect the legislature to put the executives on their toes for them to be able to perform their roles of checks and balances, and not just approving everything that comes from executives to the National Assembly. I don’t think all that comes to the National Assembly from the executive is approved. Look at the budget, if you knew what they brought and what was given back to them, either reducing or adding to them, it wasn’t the same thing. In other words, it means some steps were taken by the National Assembly. I want to believe that it is in peace that we can really forge ahead. It is not when we are at loggerheads and fighting. I think it is in the media that people believe that it is until when you fight or when you disagree, that is when you are really playing politics or administering government, whereas it is not. It’s when we are at peace that we can sort out things, that we can agree and have meetings of the mind. As we enter 2020, you will know that there are some things that do not really go like that because it’s not only the speaker that would be in charge. It’s a House of equals. It’s normal that the majority will always have their ways. The minority might have their say. Yet it does not mean that we are in loggerheads or disagreement. Will you subscribe to the formation of a gender-based political party to enhance women participation in politics? On the issue of women party, South Africa has it. But, what we need here is to re-orientate our women. During elections, majority of the people you find are women. Yet, they still believe we are infinitesimal, which is very wrong. So, I don’t see anything wrong in having women political parties. When we start from somewhere, we will be able to get to somewhere and be able to address anomaly in the society. How will you react to certain belief that women work against themselves in politics? I said it earlier that we still need reorientation, it’s not as if we are not aware that we are women, it’s not as if we are not aware we should promote ourselves, but when it comes to some things, we are petty and not really advanced, when we are able to come together in unity we would breach the gap. We need to be conscious of the challenge and start tackling it from somewhere for panacea. For instance, I organised empowerment for women in my constituent on Friday December 27, 2019. I empowered 300 women. We have to take it from somewhere, coming together to speak to our mind is crucial. God has given women opportunities to spread their tentacles. How would you rate the performance of women in the National Assembly compared to men? At the end of the legislative year, we always publish some names of those that have sponsored bills or motion, I have sponsored motion, am left with bills which I believe in 2020, I will be able. It is normal as a legislative for you to make impact, because that’s the purpose, we need all hands to be able to forge ahead. Expectations of people are too high and the heat is always on us. God help us to be able to do the needful and turning around. Gender discrimination in some parts of this country is minimal, due to civilisation and exposure, whereas in another part, it is pronounced. In those areas, they believe women should be in the kitchen or the ‘other room’. We are not saying that these set of people are not exposed too, but it takes civilization and exposure for you to be able to accommodate the other sex. It takes you seeing the other person as the creature of God. God does not discriminate. Is there anywhere in the Bible or Quran where God says a woman would have to be in the kitchen. A man should be respected. They are our crown. That is what the Bible says. But, when it comes to domestic chores, man can also be of assistance. God created man and woman for a purpose. The moment you are bringing down a woman, you are bringing down yourself that’s the problem we have in Nigeria. How do you think Nigeria can address unemployment and shorfall of electricity? Is National Assembly assisting government to bring back industries that have been in comatose, like textiles, back to business? We have three arms of government. We are supposed to be at the middle, we are the bridge between the Executive and Judiciary. Our responsibility is to make laws, create atmosphere for them to perform their roles. When we make laws, they are the ones to execute them. We have distinctive functions that can be intermeddling, at times, interwoven, distinctive by its nature. Yes, we can call their attention. I know how many motions we pass on the floor. Majority of the legislators are newly elected. They are very hot. It takes leadership a lot to do what is necessary. We can only hope and pray. On the issue of unemployment, it is only in Nigeria that we find out our youth all wanting white collar jobs, which is not possible. We cannot all be employed by the government. Most of our leaders travel outside the country, instead of them to bring back home what they saw out there by introducing and executing ideas into our own system. We should have a country where by at three years in secondary school, students will learn skill acquisition, so that they won’t be useless if they don’t get white collar jobs. This should be introduced into school curriculum.