ABUJA – Seven Traffic Policemen and five of their Federal Road Safety (FRSC) Counterparts benefited from the 2019 hamper giveaways, while some got scholarships for their children and reward for outstanding performance and commitment to duty courtesy of Israel Ibeleme Foundation. The Foundation showered the officials with gifts at an event tagged: “Hamper Give Away Project in Abuja” as part of recognition and encouragement for their passion exhibited by the beneficiaries at their various duty posts during the year, 2019. Amb. Israel Ibeleme, Founder, Israel Ibeleme Foundation, explained that the gesture is the organization’s effort to acknowledge and celebrate the nation’s gallant traffic controllers, who have shown dedication and commitment to their duties and service to the nation. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Today, the Foundation has deemed it fit to acknowledge, celebrate and appreciate our gallant traffic controllers; men and women who have shown dedication and commitment to their duties and service to the nation. Many will feel that they are merely doing their jobs, but these are men and women who have families but have spent most of their time and energy on our roads ensuring orderliness and safety of road users,” he said. In his remark, Mr Bala Ciroma, the Commissioner of Police in charge of the Command, noted that the beneficiaries are regular officers whose commitment to duty stood them out. Represented by Nurudeen Sabo, the Area Commander, Maitama Police Division, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, (ACP), the Commissioner charged the beneficiaries to keep up the good work and advised others to work hard to position themselves for such recognition in the future. He assured that all beneficiaries were transparently selected by popular votes of independent observers, stressing that such gesture would motivate not only the beneficiaries but also other officers to always put in their best at work. Also speaking, Ayuba Gora Wobin, the Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command, said the gesture would among other things encourage the beneficiaries to work harder to ensure the free flow of traffic within the FCT.