Lagos – Despite recording some ground-breaking achievements last year, President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF), Hon. Danile Igali, is not satisfied and hopes 2020 will be ‘better’ for the sport in the country. In addition to dominating the continent at the African Championships in Tunisia and the 12th African Games in Morocco in 2019, Team Nigeria grabbed three global laurels. Back-to-back Commonwealth champion, Odunayo Adekuoroye (57kg) won bronze – her third medal at the World Championships in Kazakhstan, while Blessing Onyebuchi (70+) and Mercy Genesis (50kg), both claimed gold and silver medals respectively at the inaugural ANOCA World Beach Games in Doha, Qatar. “2019 was definitely a good year for Nigeria, but our desire and hope is that 2020 becomes even a better year for us,” the World and Olympic champion said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Looking ahead to what promises to be a very busy year in wrestling, Igali said that the federation “is working round the clock” to ensure that Team Nigeria do very well in some of the competitions that the country’s wrestlers would be taking part in. To this end, Igali’s target is having between six and eight Nigerian wrestlers qualify for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo starting July 24 and end August 9. Apart from Odunayo Adekuoroye who has qualified for the Games courtesy of her bronze medal win at the 2019 World Championships, the former Olympian hope of having about eight wrestlers to represent Team Nigeria in Tokyo. To achieve the above objective, Igali plans to give the wrestlers quality preparation towards the qualifying tournament in March in Morocco. Igali, in a statement signed by the NWF Media Officer, Emeka Dennar, said: “Our goal this year is to qualify between six and eight athletes for the Olympics. “We are hoping that we would have the financial resources to get our athletes prepared enough to get probably our largest team going to the Olympics qualifying tournament in March in El Jadida, Morocco (venue of the Africa/Oceania Olympic Qualifying Tournament). “We also have a couple of Olympic preparatory tournaments. We have another Ranking Series tournament in June. Our plan is to have every athlete who qualified for the Olympics to get a minimum of 20 matches before the Olympics proper.” It would be recalled that at the Rio Games, seven wrestlers (five women and two men) represented Nigeria. Nigeria is yet to win an Olympic medal in wrestling. Igali’s gold won at the Sydney Olympics was while fighting for Canada. Already, Wrestling sensation and two-time Commonwealth champion, Odunayo Adekuoroye, is keeping alive her hope of making Nigeria proud in Tokyo as she reigned supreme in Rome at the Matteo Pellicone Ranking Series tournament, claiming gold in a very dominant fashion in the final of the 57kg class. After convincingly taking out her opponents in the earlier rounds, Adekuoroye demolished Indian Anshu Anshu 10-0 via technical superiority in the final to land gold. On her way to the final, the former world number one impressively overcame Alina Akobii of Ukraine 12-0, before recording a 10-0 victory via technical superiority over home girl Arianna Carieri in the quarterfinals. In the semifinals, she outclassed USA’s Allison Ragan 10-3 to advance to the gold medal match, while Blessing Oborududu (68kg) settled for bronze at the event. Despite losing to world champion Tamyra Mensah (USA) in her match, Oborududu fought for bronze via repechage, as her American conqueror reached the final. In the repechage, the Commonwealth champion beat Koumba Larroque of France 6-2, before walking over Alina Makhynia of Ukraine to eventually settle for a bronze medal. For Aminat Adeniyi in the 62kg, she defeated Italians Sara Da Col 8-4 in the qualification round and Elena Esposito 10-0 via superiority in the round of 16, before going down 8-2 to American Kayla Miracle in the quarterfinals, while, world champion in beach wrestling, Blessing Onyebuchi (76kg) could not compete as a result of ill-health. According to Igali, the wrestlers only need to finish within the first four positions in all their weight categories for them to get favourable placements for the Tokyo 2020 Games. “This was part of the training for the Olympics, and it was also a world ranking series tournament. It was a tournament where any point they scored will count towards their rankings at the Olympics. “What that means is that the top four ranked wrestlers don’t get to meet one another until the semifinals. “So, by and large, we were able to achieve some of our goals as Adekuoroye and Oborududu has fallen within this bracket and Adekuoroye will not meet the top ranked wrestlers until the semifinal in Tokyo,” said Igali. He said further: “Adeniyi might still have a chance to fall within the first four positions considering the performance of other wrestlers in her 62kg category”. However, SUNDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that the NWF is hopeful that more seven athletes will join Adekuoroye to Tokyo when the Olympic qualifier gets underway in Morocco. The contingent to Rome are expected back in the country on Monday, January 20 after the tournament, and will commence intensive camping ahead of the 2020 African Championships in Algiers slated for February 4 to 9. “We have the African Championships coming up in February (in Algeria), and we are hoping that, at the minimum, we are going to retain our title as African Champions in female wrestling,” said Igali. Wrestling pundits have, however, shown concerns on the chances of the athletes meeting the target sets by Igali ahead of the Olympics. “There is no target that is not achievable. It all bothers down on commitment, determination, hard work and solid preparations,” said female head coach, Purity Akuh, who could not travel with the wrestlers to Rome, Italy, as he was robbed of his belongings including his international passport on his way to Lagos for the trip. “The athletes are aware of the task ahead and they also want to be at the Olympics and they know that anything short of good preparations couple with determination would not give them the tickets, so they will want to put in their best and get the tickets. “I want to believe that with the support and encouragements from the NWF president, Hon. Igali and other members of the wrestling federation board, we should be able to achieve the targets set for the athletes.” Coach Wale Adele in his submission urged the NWF board not to relent on its efforts in ensuring that the country gets more athletes qualified for the Olympics as he also said that it will enhance the chances of Team Nigeria in winning more medals. “It is known fact that the country has not won an Olympics medal before and this time around, the jinx might be broken with the performance of the wrestlers last year and their preparations for the Olympics qualifiers. “All things being equal, the board members of the wrestling federation should not fold their hands in encouraging and supporting the wrestlers to achieve their aims. “I know it is not easy but nothing good comes easy. Preparations, I mean solid preparations matters a lot alongside support and encouragements for the wrestlers. “Should these be in place, I am sure the wrestlers would put in the best knowing fully well that they are not going only to represent the country but also to make names for themselves,” he said. Wrestling lover, Taiwo Samuel is optimistic that the target will be meant considering the efforts the board and the wrestlers are putting in place for the qualifiers. According to her, all hands should be on deck for the qualifiers and ensure that we do not have only Adekuoroye in Tokyo. “Having more than Adekuoroye in Tokyo will be good for the county and will also ginger her (Adekuoroye) up at the Games. “In a situation where you are more than one, the spirit will be high in the camp and ability to excel will be there. “I wish them all well and hope our aims and dreams will come to reality for the development and growth of the sports in the country,” said Samuel.