LAGOS – The Lagos State Police Command has given seven days’ ultimatum to clampdown on users of unregistered vehicles, vehicles without number plate numbers, vehicles with covered, defaced or fake number plate numbers, escorts vehicles without number plate numbers as well as illegal number plate numbers showing names, titles or positions. The Command in a statement issued Sunday signed by Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Bala Elkana, and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT advised violators to comply with the provisions of the law or face the full weight of the law. Elkana said Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP), Hakeem Odumosu, has set up a Special Operations to clampdown on violators of traffic laws and to embark on massive enforcement at the expiration of the seven days’ ultimatum. Elkana said users of plate numbers with special inscriptions like ‘Chief,’ ‘Chairman,’ ‘Ambassador,’ ‘Baale,’ ‘Iya loja’ ‘Sarki’ or bearing personal name, among others, are required by law to register such customized number plates. Escort vehicles and bullion vans must also be registered,” he said. He added that “vehicles displayed for sale in various car stands must have the dealer’s sticker conspicuously pasted for easy identification. The CP, however, said the ultimatum wwould start from January  6, 2020 and lapse by 11.59 p.m. on January 12, 2020. “The massive clampdown begins on 13th January, 2020 until sanity is restored to our roads. “This enforcement becomes necessary considering the fact that criminal elements in recent past have devised means of operating with such vehicles to attack unsuspecting members of the public without any trace. A recent example was a case that occurred at Allen Avenue, Ikeja, where an operator of bureau de change was attacked, robbed and murdered by a criminal gang that used an unregistered vehicle, making it difficult for detectives to track the vehicle. “For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(1) of the Road Traffic Act, Cap 548 prohibited the use of unregistered, unlicensed and unmarked vehicles. Any person who forges or fraudulently defaces, alters, mutilates or adds anything to a licence or identification mark or uses one vehicle a license or identification mark belonging to another vehicle is guilty of an offence under Section 32 of the Act as provided in the Lagos State Traffic Law for various offences. “Traffic violators will instantly be arraigned before Lagos State Special Offences Mobile Court,” CP Odumosu said.