LAGOS – Major Hamza Al-Mustapha, 2019 presidential election candidate and former Chief Security Officer to the late Nigerian president, General Sani Abacha, and the Council of Bishops have felicitated with The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement Church for its contributions towards moving Nigeria forward and affecting humanity. Congratulating the church on its 17th anniversary and success of its annual crusade, which ended on Monday in Mgbidi, Imo State, Al-Mustapha thanked Pastor LazarusMuoka, the General Overseer, for showing what true leadership is. He also appreciated Muoka’s efforts in fostering peace and harmony across Nigeria, while praying that he continues providing standing leadership. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Al-Mustapha who was represented by his Eminence, Archbishop Julius Ediwe, President of the Council of Bishops in Nigeria and Niger Delta Region of Ministers’ Forum, stated through a recorded voice note played at the crusade ground, “The last 17 years have no doubt witnessed an exemplified leadership that preaches peaceful coexistence, knowledge, understanding and great interaction with humanity. “Today as you mark the 17th anniversary and pray for both the country and humanity, I pray that God Almighty will continue to spur the General Overseer and senior officials of the church to do a lot more. “We pray and wish you greater wisdom, tenacity and knowledge to provide standing leadership. I regret my absence; as you depart at the end of the assembly, I wish those in Nigeria and outside Nigeria journey mercy to their respective destinations.” God bless you for the rare service to humanity. Thank you for the opportunity.” Ediwe on behalf of Council of Bishops in Nigeria and Niger Delta Region of Ministers’ Forum said the Christian groups were inspired by the good works of Pastor Muoka. “God is using the General Overseer of Chosen Church. Although we represented Al-Mustapha that called from U.S. for us to represent him, the point is that we came to celebrate with Pastor Muoka and we have promised to be in partnership with him,” Ediwe stated while urging Christians to focus on collectively building God’s kingdom and shun segregation.”