The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is projecting global oil demand of 100.98m barrels per day in 2020, up 1.2mbpd compared to 2019. OPEC revealed that oil demand in the US and Europe, as well as Pacific countries, will rise to 48.08mbpd in 2020, up slightly from 47.99mbpd in 2019. In the Middle East, Latin America, Africa, and Asian countries including India, demand will increase to 33.79mbpd, up from 33.11mbpd in 2019. China and some European countries will see combined demand of 19.11mbpd, up from 18.66mbpd in 2019 Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Meanwhile, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN) have pledged to partner on ways to bolster production activities in the nation’s oil and gas sector. This resolution was reached yesterday when Mr. Bank Anthony Okoroafor, the Chairman of PETAN, led members of the Association’s executive to a meeting with Mallam Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director of NNPC at the NNPC Towers, Abuja. Speaking at the meeting, the NNPC GMD stated that it was not possible for the Industry to thrive without local service providers, stressing that there was therefore, the need to ensure the development of local capacity. Kyari said the Corporation was working in concert with the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and the National Assembly to facilitate the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill before the end of the second quarter of 2020 in order to provide clarity and certainty to investors with a view to stemming the trend of dwindling Exploration and Production activities in the sector. “While work on the PIB is going on, we are engaging with the IOCs to resolve some of the commercial processes to make sure that these businesses continue. That was how we were able to deliver the Train 7 FID. We are working on the Bonga South project and a number of projects that you listed. I know that our partners are ready to do business with us. That way, exploration work will spring back, I am very optimistic about that”, the GMD said. He charged member companies of PETAN to be ethical in their transactions and pledged to support the Association in its objective of growing local capacity in the oil and gas sector. On his part, Okoroafor, PETAN Chairman, pledged the Association’s support to help NNPC meet the target production growth of 3million barrels per day and 40billion barrels reserves by 2023. He also commended the GMD for his efficient leadership of the Oil and Gas Industry which has yielded great results such as the signing of the NLNG Train 7 Final Investment Decision and the resolution of the Shell-Belema Oil dispute.