LAGOS – The Kwara State gover­nor, AbdulRazaq seems not ready to slow down on waging war against the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, who served as the state governor between 2003 and 2011. With the recent allegations of maladministration against the past administrations in the state, the incumbent governor has shown that he is not ready to take it cool with Saraki and his successor, Abdulfatah Ahmed. AbdulRazaq, who was at the State House in Abuja on Mon­day to
meet with President Mu­hammadu, lamented the situa­tion where about 75 per cent
of its income is used to offset civil servants’ salaries, owed by the past
administrations. Speaking with newsmen after his meeting with Pres­ident Buhari,
he complained of difficulties being faced by his administration, explaining
that his administration had to resort to finding alternative means of meeting
the huge financial responsibilities con­fronting the state as its govern­ment
is faced with huge debt burdens. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network AbdulRazaq alleged further that the state’s educational sec­tor
had almost gone moribund, as there had been virtually no investment into the
sector all along. He also said besides the fact that his administration came in
to be paying backlog of money owed teachers, the University Basic Education
Commission (UBEC) had black­listed Kwara State since 2013. The governor also alleged that the administration of his
predecessor sold about 110 properties of government, in­cluding the Deputy
Governor’s official residence, adding that his deputy governor currently lives
in a rented apartment. AbdulRazaq said, “I have ex­plained all these to Mr. Presi­dent
and I have told him that we want to concentrate on ag­riculture because money
com­ing from Abuja for our local governments goes in paying 100 per cent of
salaries, money coming from Abuja to the State government, 75 per cent of it
goes into paying salaries. “It’s so painful, we have to develop alternative means of
generating revenue and that is why we have to be enterprising in the way we do
our things “I came to see the President with a shopping list because our
state is in dire streaks. When we got in, there was total collapse in the state
start from education. Our four colleges of education were on strike for a year. “The government was owing teachers about N750 million. Thank God
we have been able to clear that. UBEC had black­listed Kwara State since 2013.
so it shows you that there had not been any investment in the education sector. “But we have been able to clear the liabilities. We paid UBEC
N450 million, which was misappropriated by the previ­ous administration. We are
good to go with UBEC. “We need federal interven­tion, we need federal help. UNICEF has
left Kwara, we are lagging behind in everything. We have to pay close to a
billion in counterpart funding which the previous administration had not paid. “When we got in there was no running water at all in any city in
Kwara state, today, Ilorin the state capital with­in two months we have water
running in the taps and some of the major towns too, it’s an ongoing process
but the basic thing like water is something that is very important and dear to
our programmes. “Our civil service we have been clearing backlog of debts and
2013 they have been pay­ing half salaries 60 per cent, we have been able to
clear all that and also try to show that there should be no malice gov­ernment
is a continuity. “We have not removed any­body from work, the Head of Service we
inherited is still there, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance is
still there, even the cooks in government house are still there, we have not
changed anything. “On house, what we met was that, they have sold virtually about
110 government proper­ties including the Deputy Gov­ernor’s residence, our Deputy
Governor is staying in rent­ed accommodation, they just shared everything,” he
added. In
response to some of these allegations, Ahmed, the im­mediate past governor,
main­tained that the sale of 110 gov­ernment properties alleged by AbdulRazaq,
followed due process. In
a statement issued by Muyideen Akorede, his media aide, Ahmed cleared his admin­istration
of any misconduct on the sale of the state govern­ment’s properties. The
former governor main­tained that his administration followed due process in
selling government quarters to civil servants and members of the 7th Kwara
state house of as­sembly on owner-occupier ba­sis after state executive council
approval. He
said the said approval also covered other properties disposed off by his
adminis­tration with the proceeds paid into government coffers. He
pointed out that the federal government’s mone­tisation policy, which sought to
shed the financial bur­den of maintaining govern­ment-owned properties, mo­tivated
his administration’s sale of the assets. Ahmed
also said contrary to Abdulrasaq’s claim of misap­propriation, the former admin­istration
cancelled a bank loan obtained to counterpart fund Universal Basic Education
Commission (UBEC) 2013 grant when the repayment pressured dwindling federal allocation
and threatened pressing gov­ernment obligations. Regarding
salary payment, Ahmed clarified that his admin­istration was up to date in the
payment of state civil servants including senior secondary teachers under its
remit before he left office. He,
however, pointed out that local government councils owed their workers and
prima­ry school teachers subsisting salary arrears on account of unstable
federal allocation to that tier of government. The
former governor insisted that the AbdulRazaq adminis­tration’s adoption of the
previ­ous administration’s position, that salaries and pensions gulped the bulk
of federal allo­cation to the state and local gov­ernment councils, had
vindicat­ed the former administration. The
governor early January, had ordered the demolition of the Sarakis’ political
home known as Ile Arugbo in Ilorin, the state capital. The devel­opment
heightened the crisis between the governor and for­mer Senate President who is
Ahmed’s political benefactor. President
Buhari was said to have waded in the ongoing dispute urging both parties to
sheath their swords. The presi­dent was alleged to have recent­ly set up a
private investigative committee to examine the cir­cumstances that warranted
the demolition of the “Ile Arugbo” and report back to him. According
to unconfirmed sources, Buhari expressed concern about the crisis, which has
dominated the media in the last two weeks. Also,
elders and members of the Ilorin West chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party
(PDP) in Kwara, few days ago, advised the state Abdulrazaq to face the task of
governance instead of dissipating energy on “petty issues”. They
said every effort aimed at erasing the legacies of the late strongman of Kwara
poli­tics and Second Republic Sen­ate Leader, Olusola Saraki will fail. Ahmed
Baba Okota, the PDP chairman in Ilorin West Local Government, stated this last
Friday at a press conference he addressed on behalf of the party’s
stakeholders, held at the party’s secretariat along Agbo-Oba, Ilorin. According
to him, the late Saraki’s legendary humani­tarian gestures during his life time
had implanted his love permanently in the hearts of the people. Akota
said: The late Dr. Olusola Saraki’s legendary humanitarian activities were not
restricted to the period of partisan politics alone. Even, during the prolonged
military rule in Nigeria, Saraki Oloye continued with his unmatched
humanitarian gestures at his charity home- Ile Arugbo. “Recent
actions of Gover­nor Abdulrazaq which tended towards erasing the legacies of
Baba Saraki, therefore, came to us as a rude shock. “We
concur with the submis­sions of earlier commentators on these issues, both
prominent individuals and organisations that the government’s actions are
nothing but a pure vendetta and vindictiveness! “It’s
important to make it clear to His Excellency, Gover­nor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq
and his advisers that there is nothing anyone can do to erase the legacies of
the late Oloye Saraki. Indeed, Saraki lives in the heart of the people. And
this is not accidental, it was designed,” he alleged.