LAGOS  – The General Manager, Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency (LASCOPA), Mrs. Kemi Olugbode, has explained why the agency stopped the sale of unpackaged powdered milk in open markets and places in the state saying that such sale of milk is an invitation serious public health hazards. Olugbode in an exclusive interview with our correspondent, stated that the sales of unpackaged and unbranded powdered milk is unhealthy, noting that Lagos State government and LASCOPA in particular have the statutory powers to safeguard public health in the state. “Milk is very susceptible to bacteria, so, you cannot expose milk and feel it will be wholesome, because it attracts all sorts of bacteria from the air. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We discovered some people were selling unbranded powdered milk in the open market. If you go to Daleko, you will see people sitting by the roadside, selling unbranded powdered milk; the milk that are supposed to be used for industrial purpose”. Mrs Olugbode said the agency did a video recording of the traders who were measuring the milk with cups and then send them to the caterers, adding that after investigation the agency then invited all the milk manufacturers and importers and people who package them in the state to explain to them the concerns. “Truly they were willing to cooperate. They saw the project as a very great move by Lagos State and the agency. They gave us their word and said they were ready to partner with us and do everything that needed to be done in order to put the act to an end”. She noted that the agency will engage the traders to let them know that milk cannot be sold in open markets and alsp to give them training and educate the traders on the risk involved in the sales of powdered milk in the open market. “After we must have done that, then a task force would be set up, in partnership with the market executives, where people who continue with the act will be dealt with and prosecuted, according to the provisions of the law. “We also advise the milk manufacturers to go for smaller packages instead of the 25 kg bags that they do for industrial use, and we advise them to write on the package boldly that the milk is not for consumption, but for industrial use, that is for those who manufacture yoghurt and the likes. Mrs Olugbode also took time to reveal the agency’s future expansion plans for 2020 and beyond. “We already have an approval to set up offices in 10 different locations within the state. So, what we’ve done is to draw up a schedule. We’ve written to local government, asking for space, even if it’s one room. “Once they give us, we clean it and we begin to use. We already have the approvals. So, once we get that done, we can also project in the New Year to do more. By the end of 2020, we should be able to do within 15 and 20 different locations. So very soon, we begin to tell people where to meet us”, she said.