ABUJA – Two Professors from the School of Com- munication, Texas Southern Univer- sity, Dr. Chris Chinweuba Ulasi and Dr. Anthony Obi Ogbo, have taken the bull by the horns to resuscitate the West African Pilot News, thereby invoking the spirit of its founder, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe. A statement from Ulasi and Ogbo explained that the West African Pilot News would give the com- mon man a voice over a surmounting political, eco- nomic and social environ- ment. According to the state- ment, “The first project was Pilot Media Inc., an Amer- ican-based multinational mass media corporation with focus mostly on news, television and film.“And then the West Afri- can Pilot News also struc- tured as a political, com- munity, business-focused, English language news site based in Houston, Texas, United States targeting news and events in the Sub Saharan Africa with em- phasis on Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The motto of the West African Pilot News is the spirit of investigative jour- nalism.” According to Ulasi, “In an era with the influx of technology applications and availability of inex- pensive publishing tools, the news industry has been under the threat of awfully substandard news delivery. “Our platform is a trust- ed information hub for Af- rica and the African Diaspo- ra. In Sub-Saharan regions where democracy is under threat and the freedom of speech not often guaran- teed, the editorial team at the West African Pilot be- lieves that a fearless and trusted voice was neces- sary.” Also speaking, Ogbo said, “Protection of the first Amendment Rights might not be enough in sustaining a free society. We must all give people the platform to tell their stories their way. “We are bound to fail when we allow others to tell our stories. We have ar- rived; we are sustaining the indefatigable spirit of Dr. Nnmdi Azikiwe and what was left of the Pilot in 1967.” It would be recalled that on November 22, 1937, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe estab- lished West African Pilot with the major aim to fight for Nigeria’s independence as well as other African countries from the British colonial rule.