The National Universities Commission has finally unbundled Mass Communication into seven separate degree programmes. The implication of this is that from the 2020/2021 academic session, what used to be Mass Communication in Nigerian universities would be recognised as seven programmes. The seven new programmes may be domiciled in a faculty, school or college of communication and media studies depending on the university’s choice. The new programmes are: Journalism and Media Studies, Public Relations, Advertising, Broadcasting, Film and Multi-Media Studies, Development Communication Studies and Information and Media Studies. Considering how long it took for the  NUC to unbundle just a single programme, it is only hoped that the commission will be more swift in effecting  greater changes in the entire curricular of Nigerian universities to make them more relevant. This is important if Nigeria must be a major player in today’s world. We are in an era of unprecedented change. There are rapid advancements in the fields of technology in such a way that artificial intelligence is gaining prominence with many jobs being automated by robots and algorithms. There are now restaurants in some parts of the world where waiters are robots. This practice is likely to spread because robots are cost-effective, they will always be on duty; they won’t need to go on vacation and they won’t call in sick. These days, nanotechnology, 3D printing and biotechnology are dramatically changing the characteristics of the global workforce.Unfortunately, as a nation, we appear to be very slow in responding to change. Ordinarily, our universities should be updating their curricular on constant basis to reflect global dynamics. However, from all indications, this is rarely the case. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I won’t be surprised if some universities in this country are still using the same curricula they started with when they were established. Judging from people’s experiences, it seems many teachers at all levels-primary, secondary, university, have a problem updating their lesson notes. Some teachers’ lesson notes are as old as their years of service. The same lesson note is used from generation to generation. They never change, every decade, they remain the same. That some lecturers use the same handouts for their courses from year to year is no longer news to many. A colleague once shared a story of how her lecturer in university, who happened to teach her undergrad daughter now, gave her the same assignment he gave the mum as a student nearly two decades ago. Imagine such level of intellectual laziness and recklessness! Teachers get away with so many anomalies in this country simply because the relevant regulatory bodies have either been compromised or abdicated their responsibilities. While nobody can say for sure what the future holds, one thing is certain- sciences, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) will remain relevant, hence as a nation, Nigeria must go beyond paying lip service to the development of STEM. Many of tomorrow’s jobs will likely result from today’s scientific and technological advances. Some of the jobs that  are likely to  be in high demand  in the future include commercial space pilot, extinct species revivalist, alternative energy consultant, organ/body part creator, mind transfer specialist/memory surgeon. Other jobs in high demand will include 3D Printing, Digital Marketing, App Development, Robotics, Cyber Security, Data science and Artificial Intelligence. I doubt if any Nigerian university is prepared for this. With advancements in neuroscience and technology, some people are already considering the possibility of uploading a human mind to a computer to enhance memory or treat depression and other psychological illnesses. How is Nigeria responding to this type of global move?A former Executive Secretary of the NUC, Prof Peter Okebukola, once said that top jobs that would be in hottest demand in Nigeria will include de-radicalisation counsellors, (remember ISIS and Boko Haram) Artificial Intelligence Engineers, Information Brokers, Job Developers, Leisure Consultants, Bionic Electron Technicians and Computational Linguists. Others are Fibre Optic Technicians, Fusion Engineers, Image Consultants, Myotherapists, Relocation Counsellors, Robot Technicians, Space Mechanics and Underwater archaeologists. How many of Nigeria’s higher institutions are running courses along these lines? It’s a new year. NUC should start to work towards reviewing the university curriculum to make it relevant and vibrant. As a country, we don’t have to always produce graduates that are behind time. There should be a synergy between what the universities are doing and developments in the society. The NUC should wake up to its responsibility of ensuring that Nigerian universities are globally competitive. It should organise sensitisation programmes for university leaders to keep them abreast of global developments. Universities should be mandated to review their curricula and develop courses that will not only reflect the needs of the students but also meet global standards to attract international students. (The Sahara Reporters)