LAGOS – Nigeria will compete at the 2020 Summer Olym­pics in Tokyo from July 24 to August 9, 2020. Since the nation made its de­but in 1952, Nigerian athletes have appeared in every edition of the Summer Olympic Games, with the exception of the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal because of the African boycott in protest against Apartheid rule in South Africa. Without football, since both men and female national teams failed to qualify for the Games, the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development has expressed its resolve to ensure that Team Ni­geria will take part in at least 11 sports in Japan. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Ministry has taken steps to further consolidate the chanc­es at the Games by prioritizing 11 sports and six para sports for the country. A Ministerial Advisory Com­mittee on Tokyo 2020 Games (MACT), which set this priority, also recommended an early start to pre-games camping towards ensuring maximum success. The Committee proposed 120 days of camping as it agreed to fast track the process of secur­ing the services of highly skilled technical personnel to comple­ment local coaches. The recommendations of the inaugural meeting of the Advisory Committee held on Wednesday, December 9, 2019, was submitted and approved by the Sports Minister, Hon. Sunday Dare for implementation. Some of the specific recommendations approved are:- .That the under listed 11 Sports for the Olympicd and five Sports for the Paralympic have been prioritized for the qualifying pathway: Athletics; Badminton; Basketball; Boxing; Canoeing; Gymnastics; Row­ing; Table Tennis; Taekwondo; Weightlifting and Wrestling. The five sports for the Paralym­pics are Athletics; Para Canoe­ing; Para Powerlifting; Para Row­ing and Para Table Tennis. .That the final list of qualified athletes and sports would be con­firmed after the completion of the two year qualification tour­naments cycle in June 2020; . Acknowledged the qualifica­tion of the athletes listed below as at December 4, 2019: (a) Athletics: Ese Brume (Women’s Long Jump); Amusan Tobi (Women’s 100m Hurdles); Blessing Okagbare (100m/200m); Divine Oduduru (100m); Ray­mond Okevwo (100m); Usheorise Itshekiri (100m); Chukwuebuka Enekwechi (Shot Put) and Em­manuel Bamidele (400m). (b) Basketball: Male Team (D’ Tigers) Nigeria men’s basketball team qualified for the Olympics as the highest-ranked African squad at the 2019 FIBA World Cup in China. (c) Canoeing: Bello Ayomide (Women’s Canoe Kayak) Nigeria qualified a single boat (women’s C-1 200 m) for the Games by win­ning the gold medal at the 2019 Af­rican Games in Rabat, Morocco, marking the country’s Olympic debut in this sporting discipline. (d) Rowing: Toko Esther (Wom­en’s Single Sculls) Nigeria qual­ified one boat in the women’s single sculls for the Games by finishing third in the B-final and securing the last of five berths available at the 2019 FISA African Olympic Qualification Regatta in Tunis, Tunisia. (e) Wrestling: Adekuoroye Odunayo (57kg WW) Nigeria qualified one wrestler for the women’s freestyle 57 kg into the Olympic competition, as a result of her top six finishes at the 2019 World Championships. Odunayo Adekuoroye will be representing Nigeria. It was at the World Champi­onships in Kazakhstan, where Odunayo Adekuoroye (57kg) qualified for the Olympics by winning a bronze medal, a histor­ic bronze medal. She is without a doubt, become the measuring rod in Nigeria Wrestling Fed­eration (NWF), winning three medals within four years at the World Championships. That is outstanding, and you can’t real­ly take anything away from her. For Paralympic Games are: (b) Para Rowing: Ijeoma King­sley (Men’s Singles Sculls). The Committee has meanwhile ruled that no Nigerian Athletes would feature in the Games with Wild Card qualification status. But the question is how pre­pared is Team Nigeria for the Olympics with few months to its commencement? Already, the Athletics Federa­tion of Nigeria (AFN) has prom­ised that the country would win at least a medal in Tokyo. It plans to achieve this set tar­get by keying into the Adopt-an -Athlete model recently intro­duced by Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, by providing administra­tive and technical capacity that athletes needed to succeed at the Games. The federation’s Acting Pres­ident, Olamide George, in a statement signed by its Head of Media, Dare Esan, said that the support from the Sports Minis­try in the form of Adopt-an-Ath­lete programme would boost the country’s chances of winning medals in Tokyo. “What we lacked in the past was the administrative and tech­nical capacity to help the ath­letes. This we now have with the huge support from the Ministry of Sports. “We are lucky to have a Sports Minister who understands the business of sports and what is required for its development. The adoption programme has been the best thing that has happened to our athletes in the last 20 years. “Now the athletes will not be talking about lack of support from Nigeria. What the federa­tion will add is the administra­tive and technical management of the athletes. “We intend to open our final camp for the Games in Europe sometimes in May where athletes will converge for training and for competition. “None of our relay teams has made the standard for the Games and this is why we are discussing with an international meet pro­moter and manager who will get a good training camp in central Europe and meets for our ath­letes, especially the relay teams to compete towards securing qualification for the Games.” On the other hand, Basketball is one of the sports that truly did the nation proud international­ly, if the performances of the na­tion’s men and women teams are anything to go by. The men team, D’Tigers quali­fied for the 2020 Olympics by be­ing the best African team at the last World Cup that held in China where it defeated the host team in its last game to pick the sole African ticket. They placed 17th in a 32 team tournament. At the beginning of the year, the team was the first African country to qualify for the World Cup winning their first nine qual­ifying games on the bounce. D’Tigress, the women team re­tained the Afrobasket title beat­ing Senegal, the host nation, in the final 60-55. It also picked one of the tickets for the 2020 Olym­pics qualifying Tournament in Mozambique in November. D’Tigress are grouped with the hosts Serbia, world champi­ons USA and Mozambique in the same group for the tournament, from which three tickets will be won for next summer’s Olympi­ad. To qualify for the tournament, D’Tigress need to win just a game and they are expected to beat fel­low Africans, Mozambique. And ahead of the event in February, D’Tigress coach, Otis Hughley named 14 players that will resume camping at the start of the year. Reacting to the draw which pitched them against USA, Pres­ident of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), Ahmed Musa Kida, said qualification for the 2020 Olympics was possible de­spite admitting that it was a dif­ficult draw. “Being drawn against world number one (USA) and seven (Serbia) surely will not make the job easy but I am optimistic that qualification for the Olympics is possible,” Kida said. “We know that tournament of this magnitude costs money, time and proper planning. We are going to be working with the Ministry of Sports and Youth De­velopment, the Honorable Minis­ter, Hon. Sunday Dare to ensure that we return to the Olympic Games,” he said. He went further: “The men have already qualified and all eyes are on our women to also join their counterpart in Tokyo. D’Tigress are the reigning African Champions and we hope this will count for something when they start the qualifiers,” he said. Of course, one knows that to go unbeaten in four years with an incredible 16-0 record has hand­ed Nigeria the undisputed crown of African basketball and yet ac­cording to captain Adaora Elonu, D’Tigress are just getting started. Back -to-back FIBA Women’s AfroBasket champions, they tar­geting a place at the high table of the world stage and to do that, they need to qualify for the To­kyo 2020 Olympics and compete at that level. Such an accomplishment is not a walk in the park. If anything, they will have to be on top of their game to achieve this target and further chase their dream to conquer the world. In an exclusive interview with FIBA, D’Tigress captain, Adao­ra Elonu said, “We need this to continue to fight for a chance to attend the Olympics. “We work very hard and are still working to reach our goals. “We are blessed and it will be an amazing achievement for us to reach the Olympics. It has always been on the mind of the federation and players and the opportunity is getting near. Tal­ent can be abundant but having a good coach and players who have a similar mindset is what is critical.” Following their impressive out­ing at the FIBA Women’s Basket­ball World Cup 2018 in Tenerife, Spain, Nigeria are hungry for more international exposure for it gives them cult status in Africa. Their improvement in the way they approach every game is vis­ible to anyone with eyes that can see and it is this exact reason that keeps them on their toes wanting more and more. Elonu highlighted that when she said, “It would be fantastic and similar to qualifying for the World Cup – a big achievement for Nigeria. Ex-Olympian, Jerry Okorodu­du is optimistic of the country winning medals in Tokyo but the athletes must work very hard. “We have the talents that can do that for the country and I want to believe that with determination and hard work on their (athletes) part, the country can win medals at the Olympic Games in Tokyo. “Athletes such as Ese Brume, Oluwatobiloba Amusan, Divine Oduduru, Odunayo Adekuoroye among others are talented and gifted Nigerians that can do the country proud in Tokyo. “Their efforts can be compli­mented by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and that is why I said all hands must be on deck for the success of the team in Tokyo,” said Okorodudu.