Hon Igo Aguma, former member of the House of Representatives and a stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, has called on the national body of the party to mete out punishment for those who made the party not to be on the ballot for 2019 general elections in the state. In this interview with DANIEL ABIA, he explains why he is in court, Rotimi Amaechi’s high handedness and the way forward for APC in Rivers State. Excerpts: On January 19, 2020, you organised a stakeholders’ meeting in Port Harcourt. What exactly prompted the meeting and what was the composition of attendance giving the raging crisis in Rivers APC? Well, it was a meeting of past elected and appointed stakeholders in APC. When we say elected and appointed, we mean state Assembly, Board of Commissions, Commissioners, high calibre of people. Hon Emmanuel Deeyah and I, who are driving this process, decided that we are not forming any faction of APC. There are two factions of APC in Rivers State that have been acknowledged by everybody. There is a Rotimi Amaechi-led faction and Senator Magnus Abe faction. We looked at it that those calibre of people cut across both factions. So, if we throw out an invite at them, some may heed and come. We said it clearly that this was not a formal APC meeting so that they will know. We don’t have the power to call for a formal meeting. In fact, there is no organ of the party that is functional in the state right now. We needed to do something since the leadership of the party has failed to unite the party. We took it upon ourselves that in order for the party to benefit meaningfully from the effort of being in government at the national level, we have to look for a way to forge a common ground. This is so that if we are going to demand for project or appointment, we have a common front. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A situation where one person will feel he can take up the entire state, the only way out is to start to build a common ground where we can make presentations, lobby the national organ of the party to now come in to conduct congresses. This will enable people to stand for any elected position so that the party can now have a structure in the state. So, the meeting of Sunday was the first among a series of meetings that we are going to come up with like minds so that we can come up with some lifelines on both sides of the divide. A lot of people are treating the party in memorial in the state. Right from the time of agitation from PDP to APC I have been aligning myself with Rotimi Amaechi, I have put in seven and a half years in APC. We expected about 50 people. We had 25 in attendance and we had eight apologies. Having held the first meeting and set out the agenda, I told them the reason why I am in court and I told them the reason for conveying the meeting. Members from both sides of the divide were at the meeting. Can you tell us why you waited so long before going to court to stop the fresh congress that was supposed to hold recently? I waited that long because I have a leader. Secondly, I have engaged my leader. Thirdly, being an insider, I knew that they were about to do something that would bring us back to where we were before the 2019 elections. We did not have a candidate in that election because of the disobedience of court order. The Supreme Court had ruled that you cannot hold a congress by ignoring (Ibrahim) Umar and co because they paid for the forms and you are with their money. In other words, the Supreme Court cancelled our congress for us to go back and repeat the congresses by including those people. Suddenly, you started selling forms again. This is not supposed to be a fresh congress, but a repeat congress. You were to repeat that congress by obeying the law, the judgment. That is the main reason why I went to court. I also want to tell you that at times you expect to be consulted before things are done. I am a statutory member of the state executive committee of the party. I am a statutory member of the caucus of the party. So, you cannot sweep me away and appoint a caretaker to perform my functions. I am not the one to tell them the right thing to do, they ought to know the right thing to do. Since I am in court, I will not want to delve deep into that matter now. You cannot have a state executive committee be it caretaker or not without me inside it. Any action of that committee, to my mind, is illegal. You are in court already, why are you now championing the course for peace in the beleaguered party? I want to let you know that because ambition was involved and the national secretariat mishandled it by not recognising other stakeholders to come into the resolution, the issue of peace is out of the table. But we are trying to move the party forward. The party must move forward with or without Amaechi and Magnus Abe. You were a very close ally to Amaechi at some point. Is this decision of yours to the party interest or selfish interest? I cannot deny the fact that I am a close political associate of Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi. It is a common knowledge that in everything I believe in, I am passionate about it. I believe in APC and I am passionate about it. I will tell you that I have engaged our leader on various means and ways of moving the party forward. At some point I got to know the actual aim of setting up the caretaker committee was to exclude a faction of the party. I even said, can you allow the caretaker to run the party for some time? Set up the same caretaker committees at the ward level and let us see if it can reconcile the party. At that point, I already knew that the caretaker was a misnomer. Even though I knew that the committee was not properly constituted, I wanted it to be given a chance to function. May be they did not even read the constitution of the party until when I went to court. Otherwise, what they should have done was to look at the constitution and look at other statutory members whom you cannot sweep away. You have to call these people and constitute a meeting. If they had done that, people would have started to express themselves while they would have used that opportunity to legitimize themselves as a committee. They came in and started taking instructions from my leader. The last straw was when they started selling forms before Umar and co went to court to get an injunction to stop them. They have started selling forms preparing for another congress. Since you took this position, has the leader of your party called you to ask what your grievances could be? He has not. We are politicians. I don’t want to be deceived. By the time I decided to go to court, I did an open letter after I had tried to reach the national secretariat of the party. There was a brick wall there. Thereafter, I did an open letter. I would have thought that even those party elders, who have gone to TV, would have called me after the open letter. He (Senator Andrew Uchendu) went to the TV and said when he read the letter, he called me. He lied. With all due respect, I am the son of Chief Emmanuel Aguma from a very solid background. That was not true. He called me to a meeting in his house after the court had given me an order. My open letter was on December 3. The court order was on December 21. Two weeks, my leader didn’t call me. My elder didn’t call me. He called me on Friday night and I told him that it was already too late. We are in politics. Nobody is in politics without expectations. As APC members, we have expectations. We have expectations as regards party empowerment. We have sacrificed our resources. My Personal Assistant and my cousin who went with me to the presidential rally at the airport didn’t come back. He died. I have invested a lot in this party. I have invested energy, time, resources, name it. So, this cannot be without expectations. I have donated my property for the secretariat of the party. It is my donation to the party. Party is not a social club even though it is an organisation. It is not a charity club. We are in it for expectations. But, a situation where one man will treat a party as his personal property and sit on it to decide by himself in whatever manner, of who gets what, is bad. You don’t want the party to be united so that we can come and sit down to decide that this opportunity that is coming should go to this zone or that to balance things. You want it skewed in your favour all the time. I am 52 years old. I was a commissioner at the age of 31. I served two times under Sir Peter Odili. I was in the House of Representatives for eight years. I come from a deep political pedigree. I am in this party for expectations. The entire members of APC in Rivers State are in this game for some kind of benefits in mind. Peradventure the leader of your party now reaches out to you and apologises for his mistakes, will you be willing to withdraw the case against your party from the court? Oh, my God, definitely! We are in court because we have not seen any pact. There is also an alternative dispute resolution mechanism in the party. The way forward is that we don’t want to exclude anybody, but it must not include everybody. Those that are tantamount to making it impossible for this party to move forward should be assured that this party will move forward. I have two options: to wait in front or to start now. It is better to start now. We must start early so that crisis can be resolved and the party put together at least two years before 2023. You cannot make yourself the wisest man in Nigeria by doing a congress and exclude some people who had bought forms. That is Umar and co and those who bought forms after the Supreme Court judgment, the congress is null and void. Refund the fresh people who bought forms their money because the process had begun before going to court. Status quo ante bellum. You keep complicating things thinking that the party will not grow because you know that the federal character is there. There will be appointments since you are the one on top, you can take the one you want. Be a statesman like the man that brought all of us up. Dr. Peter Odili, was at a point of offering himself for anything be it senate, minister or ambassador at the twilight of his administration. Rather than do this, he nominated fresh people and left the scene. Must you be a minister to be my leader? Can’t somebody else be a minister? Is Tinubu a minister? In your vast political experience, what in your opinion do you think constitutes anti-party behaviour giving the role of the leadership of your party in Rivers State? If you look at my open letter, I said there that the party should investigate the circumstances that led to our not being on the ballot and those found wanting should be dealt with according to the constitution of the party. Anything that made us not to be on that ballot is anti-party. People out there are alleging that you are being sponsored by Governor Nyesom Wike to do what you are doing now in your party. Tell us, are you sponsored? First and foremost my answer is no. my dad thought me that when they ask you a question, answer first before you discuss. So, no, I am not sponsored. Now, why is it that when somebody stands up to say the truth, my leader, Rotimi Amaechi starts to label him a betrayer? Let me read something to you what Peter Odili had to say about Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. A friend of mine went on TV and said it was Peter Odili that was in a position to say whether Amaechi betrayed him or not. Odili in his book, ‘Conscience and History – My Story’, in his opening remarks said: “On the 25th of October, 2007, the supreme court ordered the immediate swearing in of Rotimi Amaechi as governor. Amaechi assumed office as governor with the venom of a bitter man on a vengeance mission against all perceived, real and imagined opponents including me. Classic misplaced aggression. My support gave Amaechi the ticket. I did all in my power to sustain his candidature in the face of grave opposition from Abuja. He was party to the choice of Omehia. My party loyalty and support was to ensure victory of PDP in the election”. This is the mind of our political god father; a man whom God used to bless all of us. Now you can know why Amaechi labeled us rebels. When your conscience is not at peace because of what you have done in the past, anything that passes, you think that yesterday has come to hunt you. That place (pointing at an office by the main gate in his father’s sprawling compound) is where my father made Odili governor. That is where Odili was anointed. My mum entered night bus and took a letter from my dad to his colleague, Solomon Lar. This is history. I told you that I have a deep political history to tap from. Odili is a humble man. He made all of us. He changed the generation of politics in Rivers State. He brought in a new generation of politicians to Rivers State. We were all young men, though Dr. Sunny Ajeh was his classmate was also in that cabinet. Odili did not write this book today. When you see somebody that when a shadow passes, he looks back, that is a problem. I don’t need to be sponsored to speak the truth, I have many homes including my father’s house to sleep. If I entered my mother’s kitchen, the cook will give me anything I want to eat. An endowment fund is there set up by my father to pay school fees for any of his children, grand-children that the parents are unable to meet up. My people say, ‘When you marry, born pikin, build house, wetin remain’. My late brother (Emmanuel Aguma, SAN) was Wike’s Attorney General. Wike gave my brother a befitting state burial that wiped the tears from my mother. I did not support him them. Wike was doing election, that was when he would have needed my support the most. I was the major stumbling block to him in Port Harcourt local government area. Go and look at the election result of Buhari and that of Wike in PHALGA, you will see the consistency. We knew that we couldn’t win, but we also said that you cannot rig here. Wike could have written 230, 000 something votes came out of Obio/Akpo. 30,000 votes only came out from PHALGA. Buhari’s election, Atiku got 36,000. It is not a mean feat to achieve that in Port Harcourt local government area. I was not sponsored by Wike then. It is now that there is nothing on ground, no election, that is now am being sponsored. Wike is my personal friend, not even my late brother’s. He is my childhood friend. But, I am not working with him politically. What does Wike have to gain for sponsoring me now? I heard people say because Wike wants to join APC. He is free to join APC at any point in time. If we are smart in APC, we should come together quickly and take the structure of the party. We are all politicians. This is a game that all of us know. Structure of a party has tenure. If we are smart we should come together quickly and hold the structure of the party because if somebody, assuming….. I don’t know what the dynamics of tomorrow will bring. It is only natural that if the structure is not there and the governor comes in, he becomes a major factor in determining the structure of the party. When Amaechi moved from PDP to APC, did anybody stand on his way of determining the structure of APC? No. when Theodore Orji moved from PPA to PDP, did anybody stand on his way of determining the structure of the party? No. They are accusing me of being John the Baptist for Wike instead of realising that what I am doing is to hold the structure of the party so that even if the governor comes to the party, he will need to talk to me. That should be our posturing. When Odili came to PDP from APP and Sergeant Awuse came to PDP the same day, the latter struggled to change the structure of the party to his own. When the party structure is your own, then you have automatic delegates to the congress. But, Odili came in and embraced the structure of the party. So, you have one bigwig struggling to remove you as an LGA chairman of the party and at the same time you have another bigwig who is embracing and asking what the problems of the party were. He was sending resources for meetings to be held and for the party to be taken care of. Naturally, everybody gravitated towards that direction of Odili. We are deceived to think that majority of the party members is with us. That assumption is false. In fact, majority of the members is annoyed with us for having put their four years in limbo without a Councilor, LG chairman, state Assembly member, National Assembly member, a governor. How many people can go to Abuja to see the minister? We are in politics for benefit. It is the local political officers that can rally people round. We have nothing. Members are leaving APC in droves. Some have abandoned politics to go and do some other things. We had a winning plan through Free Rivers Movement (FRM). We had gone deep. We did mass mobilisation. Check out our performance in the last presidential election even though we did not have a candidate. When they (APC) went to invade the court, I spoke up against it in a meeting. Like senator Abe said, the courts were annoyed with APC in Rivers State, the same way the court was annoyed with the PDP when (Ifeanyi) Ararume matter which Amaechi benefitted from. Amaechi keeps saying he made this person, he made that person. Amaechi could not have made me a commissioner under Peter Odili. It is very laughable. Who was he? Did he know how the decision to make Odili governor came about? Who was he? I did not hear his name politically as at that time. That is the truth. He was never in reckoning at all. He did not even win that election on the ballot. There are 20 wards in Port Harcourt local government area. Odili lost three wards, and lost in ward 18, ward 1 and ward 20. He won in eighteen wards. We won the bye election for odili. Odili lost in Amaechi’s ward and he lost in Amaechi’s unit.