Land tussle and disputes in Ilorin, Kwara state capital, are getting more violent as the recent episode in Egbejila, the Airport community of the state shows. More or less, relevant authorities in the state will have to do more on its land allocation and administration policies, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE. Nasir Suleiman, an elderly imam of a mosque in Egbejila, a bubbling suburb of Ilorin, hadn’t an inkling of what lay ahead of him that early Saturday morning of January 11, 2020, when he set out to call the faithful to the early morning salat, the Islamic prayers. At 4:45 am, his ‘ladani’, Abdulrahim Adebayo, more or less, an assistant, who also doubles as a ‘mogaji,’ a clan head in one of the many communities that make up Egbejila, and himself, had barely begun the preambles to calling for prayers when they heard strange commotion within the mosque. Three armed police officers had emerged as if from nowhere and had put a halt to the holy proceedings in the mosque. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “They were brought to the mosque by Abdullahi Suleiman, and his brothers,” alleged the imam to Sunday Independent. The incident was a spin-off of an earlier attack allegedly made on hotel in the area where workers on land allegedly owned by Abdulganiyu were attacked by suspected cult members said to have been hired by some community leaders over land disputes. As alleged, people were robbed and maimed in the course of the attack. Some of the victims allegedly identified members of the Egbejila community as part of gang that attacked them. But as the imam further explained, the Suleiman brothers held up the prayer session, incensing a great number of Muslims who had come out to pray early that morning. But more lay in stock for the duo of the imam and the ladani. They were set upon and beaten. Both of them had their cloths shredded to ribbons before long. In no time, words spread in the sleeping community about the commotion at the mosque. Youths allegedly mobilised and returned to the mosque, spoiling for a fight. In no time, the policemen, Abdulganiyu and his other brothers, Yusuf, Garba, Belau and Issah, who had come to the mosque all ran away from the unfolding carnage. The village community had given them a hot chase. Not done, the community leaders had them made a call to the Budo Nuhu Divisional Police Headquarters along Airport Road enquiring why men of the Nigeria police had sent officers to disrupt prayers at the ungodly hour without first notifying the community leaders. “We had an arrangement with the police under the community policing arrangement where we are always involved in sensitive security matters,” explained Ayinde Jimoh, another community head, who later spoke to Sunday Independent. As learnt, the DPO, head of the police unit, had denied ever sanctioning an operation at the community. This claim was later corroborated at the police divisional office after a ranking officer admitted that the officer was never aware of any such operation on that day. “But it happens in police operation that DPOs are not informed of an impending raid in their area of jurisdiction depending on the sensitivity of the matter,” the police source said, begging that its identity be hidden because only the state command is authorised to speak on record on police operations. But matters wouldn’t end with just the early morning incident. The youth spilled out to major raids in December, cordoning off access roads with bonfires from tires and log of woods. The police returned in more numbers, this time, as response to the early morning demonstrations by irate youths outraged by attack on their mosque and their clerics. According to police sources, the second contingent was strictly a reconnaissance team sent in by the DPO to placate the youths and give feed backs to the office. Perhaps angered by knowledge that the first early morning raid and the knowledge that the operation never came from the police unit of Budo Nuhu, the worked mob pelted the officers with missiles and attacked them with sticks and machetes. Sensing that they may soon be swamped, the police made a hasty retreat. But it was almost too late. Three of the irate youths had closed in on the team of police officers, engaging them in fights on multiple fronts. One officer was allegedly cut in the hand with matchet. One of the other officers resorted to demobilising the mob shooting non-lethal rounds at the advancing mob. Three of the youths were shot in the legs, one of them, a certain Nurudeen Suleiman. Another one of the casualty was identified as Abdulrhaman. Sunday Independent could neither get the identity of the third individual shot in the leg nor the identity of the police officer allegedly cut by machete. But the incident wasn’t over. Rather subdue the mob, the shooting further infuriated them. They managed to close in on the police officer with the assault rifle and attempted to wrestle the gun from his grasp. Three people held the gun by the barrel attempting to take it from the policeman. Sensing that it could be lost battle to hold to the gun, the police officer managed to detach the magazine from the rifle fled with his colleagues from the scene. Before long, by 3pm of Saturday, ‘A’ Division of the state police command stepped in on the matter. A detachment of F-SARS invaded the community in blaze of gunfire, using both live ammunitions and shooting up canister with the aim of retrieving the seized rifles. The wounded youths and some elders in the community were picked up and taken to the CID unit in state police headquarters. By afternoon of Sunday last week, it was learnt that the gun was eventually retrieved, allegedly, after the high ranking Islamic cleric (name withheld for legal reasons) intervened in the matter. The police, at first shied away from making categorical clarification on the matter, understandably. As a policy, the law enforcement agency has a standing rule to avoid being involved in land disputed matters, urging complainants to make use of the courts. When Sunday Independent made official enquiry from Ajayi Okasanmi, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ACP), and Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Kwara State Police Command, there were prevarications. First he claimed not being aware of such matter. Promising to get back after some enquiry, there were no formal responses as at press time as calls made to Okasanmi’s phone number were not picked. But when the police made official declaration on the matter, later on Wednesday at a press briefing, it was to state that 15 people were arrested in Egbejila over disturbances and matcheting and grievously wounding of a police office. Commissioner of police, Kayode Egbetokun, said that the suspects would be charged to court in accordance with law. The police officially maintained that it was not involved in a land tussle. But the community says otherwise. According to them, the matter began from a land tussle between the Suleiman family and members of the community. The Suleimans, in a sensational claim say that lands in Egbejila, stretching all the way to Ote, Afon, all major settlements in Ilorin and Asa local governments stretching into Oyo State belonged to their late father. The said land has new settlements with properties running into billions of Naira. The state’s international cargo airport is situated in the disputed land. The said disputed land had spurned litigations in courts and before the Emir of Ilorin. The communities have been on the said case in the last four years with cases in different courts and before the Emir of Ilorin. Community leaders in Egbejila allege that the Suleiman family have avoided showing up at the places of adjudication to settle the matter in the last four years. While the public awaits how the matter will turnout in the days ahead, many insist that the matter will not end anytime soon. For instance, most residence in the area have begun moving out because there are fears that there will be retaliatory attacks if the land matter is not settled. Egbejila is home to many new layouts with vast numbers of non-indigenes buying lands and building on them. But of late, the spate of land tussle resulting in violence being visited on people has been on the increase in Ilorin. Not too far from Egbejila is Alagbado Eiyenkorin, whose residents in a new layout are leaving in peace of the graveyard. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has completely walled them in with parameter fencing made of cement blocks and deep moats. Before embarking on it, the military officers had routinely invaded the community, beating and generally harassing the property owners on allegations of trespassing on NAF lands. Though relative peace has been achieved on the said dispute, there is no doubt that many land owners in the areas await in baited breath not knowing where violence over land ownership will spring up next. 