Mohammed Shosanya;Joy Anigbogu;Titilope Adeniregun;Samuel Ogidan Electricity consumers on Sunday took a swipe at the Federal Government for spiking electricity tariff by about 200 percent. A source at Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) said it is just a minor upward review that will take effect from April. NERC said no tariff increase has been approved by the commission yet, but indicted itself, saying it “was a retrospective adjustment of the tariff regime released in 2015”. Usman Arabi, General Manager, Public Affairs (NERC), made the clarification in a statement issued on the agency’s website on Sunday. Arabi said: “The attention of the NERC has been drawn to the publication in several electronic and print media that end-user electricity tariffs have been increased following the approval of the minor review (2016 – 2018) of the 2015 Multi Year Tariff Order on August 21, 2019. “We wish to provide guidance that the minor review implemented by the commission was a retrospective adjustment of the tariff regime released in 2015.” Consumers said the action indicated that the government was bent on launching the country into the Next Level of poverty and deprivation. They also said the fact that the government ignored public outcries and adjusted the cost of electricity in the country portrayed the APC-government as being insensitive to the plight of the masses, given the prevailing hardship in the country. They urged other Nigerians to mount intense opposition against the new cost of electricity which, they reasoned, would not lead in increase in power supply and add value to the privatisation of the sector. Leading the opposition against the electricity hike, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rejected the increase, describing it as draconian and completely against the interest and wellbeing of Nigerians. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, implored the Federal Government to immediately rescind what it called the obnoxious and provocative policy in order to consult further with Nigerians before the hike. The party described the increase in electricity tariff as a furtherance of the fleecing of Nigerians who were already overburdened and groaning under the weight of high costs, economic repression, and heavy taxes foisted by the insensitive APC administration. The PDP said: “It is lamentable that Nigerians, who are already suffering the devastating negative impact of the recent increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 percent to 7.5 percent by the APC administration, are now being further suppressed with increased electricity tariff. “Our party holds that the increase in electricity tariff, under the prevailing harsh economic conditions, is injurious to the wellbeing of Nigerians as it will further stress the productive sector and lead to an upsurge in the cost of regular and essential goods and services, including food, medicine, housing, education, and other critical needs. “This APC policy, if allowed, will worsen the suffering of Nigerians as it will put more stress on already overburdened families, cripple businesses, result in job losses and exacerbate the prevailing frightening unemployment rate under the Buhari administration.” The party urged Nigerians to note the “new year gift” by the APC administration at a time Nigerians were coming back from the yuletide festivities, adding that it showed that the APC was indeed unfeeling, insensitive, and had no iota of regard for the sensibilities and wellbeing of the citizens. The PDP insisted that any administration that had the interest of the people at heart should provide alternatives or hold consultations with the people before imposing such harsh tariff on its citizenry. The party urged the National Assembly to rescue Nigerians from such draconian policy by deploying its statutory legislative instruments to call the Federal Government to order in the interest of the nation. Workers, under the aegis of the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC), also faulted the electricity hike, saying the development would not free the nation’s power sector from its ills. The union, in an email to our correspondent, said: “Well, this is expected as in the so-called MYTO plan, but the problem goes beyond the tariff adjustments using economic variables. “The fact remains that the DisCos cannot collect reasonable percentage of their bills due to the inefficiency of their operations. They have to invest heavily in metres and equipment to reach break-even efficiency. “Tariff increases cannot solve efficiency problem but pass their inefficiency to customers. The uncollected revenue is a loss to paying consumers when the tariff is further increased on the paying customers.” Chinedu Bosah, National Coordinator, Coalition of Affordable and Regular Electricity (CARE), condemned the action of the Federal Government, saying it was tantamount to impoverishing the masses. He said: “We’re condemning it on the basis that the working masses are already overburdened. They are not considering the plight of the masses. “They are relying on the inflation rate being given by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). What we are demanding is for them to reverse it. This increase will only provide opportunity for the DisCos and GenCos to profiteer at the detriment of the working masses.” Ibrahim Usman, Chairman, Infrastructure Committee of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), said the tariff hike was ill-timed and would not do Nigerians any good. He added: “We expected that all the stakeholders should have been involved during the decision taking towards increasing the tariff. The DisCos ought to have carried all of us along, because there is a major and a minor review. “Traditionally, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) would have been part of meetings where they decided to increase tariff.” Chief Sunday Oduntan, Executive Director, Research and Advocacy of the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), could not be reached as at press time. He had told Daily Independent in previous chats that the electricity tariff in Nigeria was unsustainable and advocated the need for the Federal Government to consider adjusting same with a view to paving way for his members to break even in the power business. Saleh Mamman, the Minister of Power, last December, gave a hint of the inevitable hike in electricity tariff, saying the development was due to the rising cost of electricity generation in Nigeria. He said improvement in electricity supply necessitated the need to increase electricity tariffs. Goddy Uwazurike said the Federal Government wanted the citizens to spend more money on what was supposed to be an essential commodity, adding that it was seeing it as pure business whereas they had not even provided power. According to Uwazurike, “The move is callous on the part of the government. They want us to pay more for what we don’t have despite the fact that they make people pay more already through estimated bill. “The DisCos know what they are doing by colliding with the government to enforce the increase in people. I disagree with the increase in electricity tariff and people should get value for their money. “The Federal Government is callous for making that decision. For the past six years, some people did not have pre-paid meters, so why should they be made to pay more? “I condemn such move and I say it is callous on the government’s part to make citizens pay for what they have not enjoyed.” On his part, lawyer and activist, Monday Ubani, pointed out that before the Federal Government made the move to hike tariff, they ought to have ensured that every house was metered. “Any increase without metering is the greatest fraud of the century. The Federal Government is just collecting money for what they have not provided and it shall not be well with those who are behind this. “It is the most stupid move by the government because people are paying for what they have not used. My little village in the South East pays over N70,000 in a month whereas most of them don’t have more than a bulb and fan and they don’t have light more than 10 minutes in a day. “I paid close to N50,000 in my office on estimates bill until I was able to get a meter after which I started paying less than N5000 worth of electricity. “They shall never prosper for collecting money from people without giving them light. And I say it again that any increase in electricity tariff without metering is the greatest fraud,” he said. Similarly, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) described the tariff hike as outrageous and punitive. Ozekhome said: “We are simply increasing the tariff of sorrow and penury of the citizens because there is no electricity, yet they are increasing the tariff. “For someone like me, I use more of generator than electricity. You can only increase tariff on product that is available but when there is no such service, it’s very insensitive on the part of the government. “The increase is outrageous, punitive, and poverty rekindling.” Also, Justice Uhuegbu, an activist and lawyer, faulted the tariff hike, maintaining that he did not see any reason the government would always want citizens to pay for its recklessness. Uhuegbu told Daily Independent on Sunday that he was not surprised that government made that decision, neither would he be surprised to wake up one morning to discover that government had increased pump price of petrol by 300 percent. The activist maintained that looking at the 2020 budget presented by President Muhammadu Buhari, one would notice that it was all about taxation of the citizens. He stressed that government had been insensitive to the plight of Nigerians. According to him, the high poverty level in the country did not mean anything to the government and wondered why over 95 percent of Nigerians were charged tariff based on estimation, pointing out that the country had continued to degenerate geometrically. “I don’t know what the Federal Government has done with all the funds it borrowed. I don’t even know what it has done with all the recovered loot. “We were made to understand that it recovered a huge sum of money. What happened to it? It is high time Nigerians woke up and began to ask questions because this government cannot keep making the citizens to pay for its ineptitude, recklessness, and mistakes,” he said.