YENAGOA – Despite the issuance of a certificate of return to David Lyon as the governor-elect of Bayelsa State by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state appears to be still hooked to the stake of unfolding intrigues. The fate and fortunes of the APC have been hanging on the balance of uncertainty since the outcome of its governorship primary conducted on September 4, 2019. This is more so because the battle within the party moved to the law courts after some aggrieved governorship aspirants picked holes in the entire exercise. Like a festering sore, it had continued to put a wedge on the path to total electoral victory for the APC and Lyon. One of such is the petition of Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, a former governorship aspirant of the APC and the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He had challenged the candidature of Lyon and prayed the court to, among others, declare him the authentic winner of the primary poll. He claimed that he and not Lyon won the primary election conducted through direct mode. Although Lyon has scaled the legal hurdle at the Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on January 11, 2020, that may not be the end of the tortuous path to his swearing in on February 14. He survived the three rulings delivered by the appellate court. The three-member panel of justices dismissed Lokpobiri’s suit against Lyon. In the judgment quashing the former minister’s case, the court affirmed the governor-elect as the valid winner of the APC primary poll. Justice Isaiah Olufemi, who read the lead judgement, ruled that Lokpobiri failed to comply with the statutory 14 days period for filing an appeal. He stated that the litigant ought to have filed the case not later than September 17, 2019, and dismissed the appeal. “The matter was filed on September 18, 2019, outside the 14 days statutory period. The petition was not filed within time,’’ Olefemi said. Lokpobiri headed for the appellate court following the November 14, 2019 judgment of the Federal High Court, Yenagoa, presided over by Justice Jane Inyang, which nullified the APC primary election. The court had further declared that the APC should not be on the ballot for allegedly conducting a governorship primary that failed to comply with the party guidelines and constitution. Justice Inyang held that the primaries were conducted arbitrarily outside the rules of the party. According to her, since the process was conducted in violation of the party’s constitution and guidelines as clearly spelt out for the conduct of governorship primaries, none of the aspirants should be fielded as the party’s candidate. She, therefore, restrained the INEC from including Lyon as the APC candidate in the governorship election. She noted that according to the APC guidelines for the conduct of the 2019 governorship primaries, the results were expected to be declared by the returning officer for the primary poll, Governor Mai Kala Buni of Yobe State and not Senator Emmanuel Ochega, Secretary of the electoral committee. Inyang also held that the APC violated its own rules in the composition of the electoral panel when it constituted a one-member committee and not seven members as stipulated in the party rules. “It has been established by judicial authorities and several judgments that political parties are bound by their own rules, the committee that conducted the primary threw caution to the winds and it is my ruling that the primaries stand nullified. “The results announced by Senator Emmanuel Ochega are not valid as he is not the returning officer for the election. And I make an order restraining INEC from recognising any of the aspirants that participated in the said primaries,” Inyang said. Besides Lokpobiri, Lyon had also challenged the Federal High ruling at the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt via an ex-parte application upon which the court ordered the INEC to “maintain the status quo ante bellum which existed before 18 September 2019”. Lokpobiri and the INEC were all respondents in the matter. One of the grounds for Lyon’s application at the Court of Appeal was that there would be “a great irreparable damage” to himself and his party, the APC, if the judgment by Justice Inyang was allowed to be executed before the election. However, few hours after Justice Inyang’s judgment, Timipre Sylva, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, declared that an Appeal Court in Abuja had granted a stay of execution of her ruling. Sylva, who is the APC leader in Bayelsa, told journalists at a press briefing at the Earnest Ikoli Press Centre, Yenagoa that the party was going to actively participate in governorship election. “Fortunately for us, the Appeal Court in Abuja has just granted a stay of execution. “That means we are fully, as a party, in the position of contesting the election as we have always wanted to contest because we know that the people of Bayelsa State are behind us,” he said. He described the Yenagoa Federal High Court’s nullification of the September 4 primary election as “the strangest thing not known to law”, stressing that Justice Inyang’s judgment never addressed the prayers sought by Lokpobiri in the first instance. “The strangest thing not known to law happened in Bayelsa State. Heineken Lokpobiri went to court claiming that he was the winner of the APC primaries held in September in Bayelsa State. Chief David Lyon went to court to say ‘no, you are not, we are actually the rightful winners recognised by the INEC. “None of the parties, not David Lyon, not Heineken Lokpobiri said there were no primaries. Nobody said so. That was not the issue at all. “Heineken also said there were primaries but he was the winner. Lyon said there were primaries duly conducted and he was the winner. “So, where did the judge get her ruling from that there were no primaries? This is totally unknown to law. But it clearly, clearly is a biased judgment with all due respect to the judiciary.” The appellate court’s judgment, which affirmed Lyon’s candidature and struck out Lokpobiri’s case has brought some relief to the governor-elect and Sylva’s camp in the APC, at least for now, ahead of February 14 when he would be inaugurated as governor of the state. The APC national secretariat through Yekini Nabena, the deputy national publicity secretary, applauded the Court of Appeal verdict, and maintained that it was an affirmation that the direct primaries mode used to select Lyon was “credible, transparent and reflected the wishes of the party members in the state.” “In delivering the verdict, the Court of Appeal has sided with party members and defended their votes, which they gave Lyon to move Bayelsa State to the next level. “While Heineken Lokpobiri has a legitimate right to contest the outcome of the primaries through legal means, it is now clear through the Appeal Court ruling that Lokpobiri had no case ab initio. “I now charge all well meaning Bayelsa people to support the incoming administration of Lyon whose campaign development blueprint when implemented will deliver home grown initiative to ensure progress, peace and stability of the state and the Niger Delta,” Nabena said. The party urged Bayelsa people to rally around and support the incoming administration of Lyon. Also, the state chapter of the APC described three judgments’ of the Court of Appeal dismissing Lokpobiri’s case and upholding Lyon’s candidature “represent a victory for all-Bayelsa State, Nigeria and democracy.” Doifie Buokoribo, the state APC publicity secretary, while reacting to the verdict, called on well-meaning people to “join hands with the state governor-elect to build a better Bayelsa for all.” But Lokpobiri appears not to be satisfied. He remains an aggrieved aspirant not ready to give up his quest to upstage Lyon. To this end, his supporters and sympathizers have encouraged him to head for the Supreme Court to challenge the January 11 judgment of the Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt. Faulting the appellate court’s judgment, Sunday Frank-Oputu, the leader of Senator Heineken Lokpobiri supporters in APC, described it as “extravagant and has no legal basis.” Frank-Oputu said the ex-minister’s decision to approach the Supreme Court was to determine whether he filed his petition after the period stipulated by law as claimed by the judges. “The lower court had giving ruling on the application filed by the respondents on the issue of out of time. On the court record, the case was filed on the 17th of September and the primary election of the APC was held on the 4th of September. And the laws of the land including the Electoral Act had given every applicant 14 days to appeal,” he argued. Frank-Oputu continued: “The same Electoral Act as noticed in the ruling of the Supreme Court in September last year also stipulated that the real date of cause of action should be the day the party forward the name of candidate to INEC. “Not even the date the election was conducted. And with party mechanism, there is a saying that you must allow internal processes to go through. Meaning, you go for appeal and these are results you must present to form evidences for you at the court of first instance to proof your case.” It was gathered that although Sylva’s faction in the APC is delighted that barriers to the successful assumption of office by Lyon are being dismantled, some concerned party members have remained unsettled by the next line of action taken by Lokpobiri. They are worried that he could have merit in his argument if the case is entertained by the Supreme Court, given the grounds of time frame upon which he is hinging his appeal. One of the concerned APC members, who pleaded for anonymity for fear of being victimised said, “In this kind of game, it is not over until it is over. And we are disturbed because Lokpobiri is driven by some conviction that there is light at the end of the tunnel, which is the Supreme Court in this instance.” “It is not enough to believe that because Sylva is backing Lyon, the case will just go the way of the governor-elect. We are in Nigeria.” Another party stalwart who pleaded anonymity “because it is a sensitive issue”, opined that Lokpobiri’s journey to the Supreme Court has dismantled the insinuation that he had challenged Lyon’s candidature because he wanted to use his petition as a bargain for political settlement by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He contended that until all matters challenging Lyon’s emergence either as the candidate of the APC or winner of the governorship poll are disposed of in his favour, there will always be anxiety in the APC family. “Politics is a funny game in Nigeria. It is also unpredictable. So, even in this case of Lokpobiri, people should not take it for granted that the coast is very clear. For me, I just hope that there will not be any surprises before February 14”, he stated. It was also learnt that Lokpobiri had been under pressure by some APC national officials to drop his litigation against Lyon and “embrace peace”. His media aide, George Oji, said the former minister would not react to the Court of Appeal ruling yet. “We are still studying the judgment. So, we can’t react now,” he said.