MOHAMMED SHOSANYA; TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI LAGOS – Investors in the generating and distribution arms of the power sector are currently fretting over plans by the Federal Government to take over the assets and hand them over to investors it thinks can manage them, Daily Independent has learned. The development came as the government recently ended a review of the activities of the firms which culminated in the celebration of the fifth anniversary of the Performance Agreements (PAs) which it signed with the power firms. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The government signed the agreements with DisCos on January 1, 2015, which ensured that DisCos significantly reduced problems relating to metering, collection, and technical losses within five years of operation. The government had directed its agencies and parastatals to review the activities of core investors who bought the distribution assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). The firms include Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company, now Ikeja Electric (IE); Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC), Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), and Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC). Others are Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC), Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JEDC), Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC), Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company (PHEDC), and Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDC). Only Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company (KEDC) was left out of the review by the government because it signed PA with the firm much later after January 1, 2015. A source told Daily Independent that the government’s body language seems to favour review of the power sector privatisation, noting that that is why it is reviewing the status of the ownership structure of the power distribution companies in the country. However, Director of Research and Advocacy, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Sunday Oduntan, told Daily Independent, that it was not true that his members were worried over the possible withdrawal of their licences in favour of the anointed investors of the Federal Government. He noted that his members had upped revenue collection by N43 billion – from N423 billion in 2018 to N466 billion in 2019 – adding that DisCos hoped to increase their revenues in the future to prove to the Federal Government that they were reliable and efficient partners in the nation’s power sector. Besides, an official of Association of Power Generation Companies said she was not aware of the ploy by the Federal Government to anoint new investors to take over her members’ assets. But the General Secretary, National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE), Joe Ajaero, maintained that privatisation policy of the Federal Government in the power sector was not designed to succeed but to fail. He lamented that six years down the line, no megawatts had been added and no power plant had been built by either the investors or government. He said the investors were not ready to build the power plants but only concerned about increasing tariff. “We cannot agree to pay for what is not available. If you increase power generation and distribution that will give you the latitude to say you are increasing tariff. “There have been three attempts to increase tariff since privatisation. If there was no power before now, $16 billion that was spent would have been useful in helping Nigeria achieve 16,000 megawatts at the rate of $1 billion per thousand megawatts,” he noted. The NUEE scribe said Nigeria was one of the countries down the ladder suffering from inadequate power supply, adding that the ideal thing is that “for every one million people, there must be 1,000 megawatts and that is why today South Africa is talking about 45,000 people to 45000 megawatts.” He further stated that the indices in the country showed that there was less than 4,000 megawatts for about N200 million people and government wants the private sector to put in place certain measures to reposition the sector. Ajaero added: “This is the time to speak truth to power; they need to be more transparent and open in whatever that is happening in the power ministry. “Nigerians should not expect steady power supply if the power ministers cannot come out to address Nigerians. I am calling on any of the ministers today to come out and tell Nigerians the situation in the power sector. “The private sector doesn’t have the financial wherewithal to revitalise the sector. I have asked at what return on investment will an investor invest, because before you finish a power plant, it will take four years and the investor may not have that patience. You cannot recoup investments on any power plant in less than 15 to 20 years. “There is need for a rethink on how to move the power sector forward, if there is no rethink in the next three or four years, the sector will collapse. “If there is no power plant that is being constructed now that will come into the grid, the power sector will collapse and, to avoid this, there is need for a review. “The Generation Companies (GenCos) and Distribution Companies (DisCos) borrowed money from banks to buy these establishments and they are returning the interest on these loans on Nigerians.” President of Senior Staff of Electricity and Allied Companies, Comrade Chris Okonkwo, emphasised the need for the Federal Government to religiously enforce the contract it entered into with the investors. A civil society coalition, Coalition for Revolution, also implored the Federal Government to review the privatisation of the power sector, due to failures of the operators. The Coordinator, Prince Rilwan Ojora, said power supply had worsened since the sector was privatised in 2013, as new owners of power assets had not added any value to the sector. Ojora said the various power distribution companies (DisCos) and generating companies (GenCos) were billing consumers without delivering service. He said it was high time the government stopped listening to excuses of private power companies for not delivering service, calling for the revocation of their licences and “re-nationalisation” of the sector. He said: “Privatisation of the power sector to suit the whims of vicious DisCos and GenCos has no doubt complicated power problems. And these problems within the past few years have assumed ridiculous turn of embarrassing magnitude. “Far more than ever, the distribution companies have not only failed to provide electricity, they have taken it as a priority to harass Nigerians with crazy and estimated bills. Most houses today are without electricity meters, and this is a conscious attempt to bill consumers for product not consumed. “It is no wonder you find as common phenomenon a situation where an individual who pays N5, 000 as monthly rent receives an electricity bill of N20, 000 even when he barely enjoys the service of electricity.” Ojora said the country had not really added more megawatts since the power firms took over from PHCN, the government-owned firm. “So, we are saying enough is enough. This should not continue. We are demanding the reversal of the privatisation of the sector as DisCos and GenCos have failed Nigerians.” He urged the government to stop DisCos from collecting from consumers, arrears borne out of estimated billing, while canvassing a halt to bailouts to electricity firms by government. The coordinator said the coalition, comprising the Take it Back Movement, Landlords and Tenants Association of Nigeria and Advocacy for Anti-Bribery, Corruption and Preventive Initiative, would stage a protest on the power crisis on June 17. Besides, Coalition for Affordable and Regular Electricity has called on the Federal Government to once again nationalise the power sector, invest massively in it, and introduce democratic and transparent management. The group described the reversal of privatisation as the only way the electricity needs of Nigerians would be met. The Federal Government in November 2019 raised an ad hoc committee chaired by governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai, to review the ownership structure of the power distribution companies. The National Council on Privatisation and Bureau of Public Procurement are serving on the committee. Governors representing the six geo-political zones on the Board of the Niger Delta Power Holding Company are also serving on the committee. We Will Enforce New Electricity Tariff From April— ANED Meanwhile, the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distribution Companies (ANED) on Monday said that the Distribution Companies (DisCos) would enforce the new electricity tariffs from April 1. Sunday Oduntan, the Director, Research and Advocacy, ANED, disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Monday. Oduntan said that the present tariff shall remain the same until April 1, when there would be a slight increment to cater for tariff shortfalls which shall be gradually passed on to consumers until “it is fully completed’’. “We state emphatically that there shall be no change or increase in the existing electricity tariff until April 1, when the new adjusted tariffs shall begin to gradually reflect the dynamism of our macro-economy.’’ Oduntan said that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) was empowered by the Electric Power Sector Reform Act to carry out minor reviews of the Multi-Year Tariff Order 2015 twice a year. According to him, NERC has just reviewed the MYTO 2015 and has published an order on tariffs and minimum remittance for January to June. NERC had on Saturday published new tariffs for the different DisCos and categories of customers on its website which was signed by its chairman and Secretary Prof. James Momoh and Dafe Akpeneye, respectively. However, NERC chairman, Momoh, had in a news conference on Monday said what the commission did was a tariff review which was usually done twice a year. According to him, there will be no increase in electricity tariff without consultations. Oduntan said that the new tariff ordered by NERC would cater for revenue shortfalls in the sector “The tariffs anticipate changes in the currency exchange rates between the United States and Nigeria, changes in the rate of inflation and gas prices. “It is our hope that this explanation substantially clarifies the accurate position and allays any fears and concerns our esteemed customers may have.” he said. It’s Too Early For Buhari To Speak On Tariff Hike— Presidency The presidency on Monday said President Muhammadu Buhari will not interfere in the row over planned increase in the price of electricity tariff in the country. There have been condemnation over the planned increase as power distribution companies on Monday declared that the new electricity tariffs shall become enforceable from April 1. However, speaking on Channels Television programme ‘Politics Today’ on Monday evening, Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said the issue of electricity tariff is not something that is within the purview of the presidency. According to him, it is too early to ask President Buhari to speak on the matter. He added that even if the president has to speak on the matter, it will be at the last minute when the matter cannot be resolved by the affected bodies. “Talking about electricity tariff, it is not something strictly within the purview of the presidency. You have the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, you have the Ministry of Power and I know that today, in the news media generally, there is a reaction from the Ministry of Power on that story. “They are the ones to respond at this point. There are certain things that the presidency only comes in at the very last resort so that when the president speaks, it is the final say. It is rather early to ask the president to wade into this matter at this point”, he said.