Comrade (Engr) Igbini Odafe Emmanuel is the National President, Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy (VATLAD). In this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI, on Nigeria Delta traditional rulers, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and others. Excerpts: Recently, some highly placed traditional rulers and leaders of Delta State declared that Delta State is justified to produce Chairman and Managing Director of NDDC. What is your reaction? I have said this same thing before where the whole arguments about the nomination of members of Board of NDDC began. So, I am pleased that our leaders now agree with me. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Stating it without any equivocation, Delta, Rivers, Akwa-Ibom and Bayelsa States that are the four major oil producing States of the Niger Delta Region, are each entitled to simultaneously producing the Managing Director and Chairman of NDDC at different times. These Traditional Rulers and Leaders of Delta State also used this position to argue that Edo State is therefore not right to be allowed to produce the Chairman of the Board of NDDC now. This appears to support the plan by President Buhari to re-compose the NDDC Board. What is your response? First, our Traditional Rulers and Leaders of TROMPCON are not asking that President Buhari should recompose the Board of NDDC so as to remove the already confirmed appointment of Mr Bernard Okumagba as Managing Director of NDDC, a position rightly zoned to Delta State now. I just need to make this point clear so as to correct some misleading comments being made around now that our Traditional Rulers and Elders of our Oil Producing Areas of Delta State are demanding for Chairmanship of NDDC in place of Managing Director already ceded to Delta State. They are not! What they are demanding for that Edo State let go the Chairmanship of NDDC now for Delta State and to wait till the next four years when it shall be their turn by virtue of the alphabetical rotation principle as provided for in section 4 of the NDDC Act 2000. If you carefully read the recent interview granted to Vanguard Newspaper by His Royal Majesty, King Charles Ayemi-Botu, who is a first class Traditional Ruler in our Ijaw Oil Producing Community of Delta State and who was also the former National Chairman of Traditional Rulers of Oil Minerals Producing Communities of Nigeria (TROMPCON), he said it very clear that it is the turn of Delta State to produce the Managing Director of NDDC based on the fact that this position is rotated among the four core Oil-producing States of Delta, Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa and Rivers. He went further to say that the position of the Managing Director of NDDC “is not open to all the nine Oil States of NDDC because some are just nominal producers”. I am quoting him. This is the key point that must continue to guide President Buhari from being misled by some people to tamper with the position of Managing Director which he appointed and the Senate rightly confirmed to be that of Delta State. Will it be morally right for Delta State to also produce the Chairman of the Board? Delta State is known to be a big heart for love particularly in our Oil Producing Areas with the political and Commercial Headquarter in our Oil City of Warri which host the major Oil and Gas Companies, NNPC Refinery Company, Delta Steel Company, Warri Sea Port, and others. As you know, it is for this Big Heart for Love that we have for all Nigerians irrespective of their States of Origin, that Warri is known and celebrated as equal home for everyone; a city for all. Will Delta State be ready to allow Edo State take its slot of Chairman of NDDC now? When I sat for Common Entrance Examination in the 1970s as a pupil of Army Children School, Kakuri, in Kaduna State, I was told that having scored very high in the Exam, beating the cut-off mark for Federal Government College, I was also automatically qualified to gain admission into Government College. That meant I have two Choices and the decision is entirely mine to make on which to place as First Choice and Second Choice. I made my First choice which was Federal Government College which was higher in status than Government College then. That was what happened and my decision was respected by Examination Board even though at the end, I had to abandon the Federal Government College to return back to my home State of then Bendel due to introduction of an unfortunate policy then in some States of Northern Nigeria. It is the same principle when students apply for JAMB and choose their first, second and third Choices. All Patriots of Delta State have unequivocally chosen the position of Managing Director of NDDC as our First Choice for the simple reason that the position of Managing Director of NDDC which is also the Chief Executive and Accounting Officer of the Commission is the most critical and most relevant of the Commission. Does that mean the position of Managing Director is higher than Chairman of NDDC? It is the more critical and important of both. There is no doubting it. Everyone who has been President or Governor or knows the Influence and Powers of MD/CEO of any Organisation that has a part-time Board headed by a non-Executive Chairman knows this fact that MD is most critical and important. Carefully reading the NDDC Act which defines the Functions and Powers of the Chairman and Managing Director of the Commission you will see that the position of Managing Director is the most critical, most important and most relevant Office in the Commission. The Managing Director by virtue of section 10 of the NDDC Act, is the Chairman of the Management Committee of the Commission which has two Executive Directors and the other Directors responsible for over eleven Directorates of NDDC. This Management Committee is lawfully and solely responsible for the general and day-to-day administration of the Commission. Section 12 of the NDDC Act further defines the Managing Director of NDDC as the Chief Executive and Accounting Officer of the Commission. Don’t we know what it means to be a C.E.O of any establishment? What are the roles of the Governing Board? Whereas the Chairman leads other members of the Governing Board who operate on part-time basis except the Managing Director and the two Executive Directors who are also members of the Governing Board. The Governing Board only meets once in a while to formulate policies for the Commission that are executed only by the Management Committee under the leadership of the Managing Director and the two Executive Directors. The Board also has powers to manage and supervise the affairs of the Commission and make regulations for the Management Committee to implement and few other functions. But what is very important to note is that, in this Governing Board too, the Managing Director and the two Executive Directors of the Management Committee remains very prominent and critical in all meetings of the Board and the decisions to be taken by the Board. Does this not settle beyond any doubt, the fact that the position of Managing Director is the most important and critical in the Commission and therefore the natural First Choice Position? Who then will abandon or be expected to abandon any First Choice?   