Abuja – Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu on Tuesday in Abuja unveiled “IGP 30 Minutes Quiz Competition” to help steer children and youth away from all forms of crimes and criminality. According to a statement sent to Daily Independent by DCP Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), the fun-filled programme is being organized in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Education, State Ministries of Education, other education-related agencies and stakeholders. The competition which is specifically designed for secondary school students will feature students from Police, Military, and Paramilitary Secondary Schools in addition to other conventional Secondary Schools across the Country. The statement showed that seasoned panelists will ensure a credible, transparent and qualitative process that will culminate in a grand finale where the mouth-watering prize would be won. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Equally, as the programme progresses there will be a school visitation programme where Public Relations Officers will be visiting selected schools across the country to lecture the pupils and students on the dangers of taking to crime as well as the importance of abstaining from it. “It would also involve career talks with a view to triggering the interest of some of the students in considering careers in the Police Force. These will further help in steering our children and youths away from all forms of crimes and criminality.” It would be recalled that last year, Adamu launched the Police Campaign against Cultism and other Vices, otherwise known as POCACOV. This initiative which was equally targeted at students according to the statement has already started making positive impacts across the States of the Federation. “It is pertinent to note that these programmes are not in isolation but component parts of the big picture, which is, Community Policing with the sole aim of ensuring a safer Nation. “Our hope is that these projects will stem the supply chain of criminals. You all will agree with me that once our children abstain from crimes, the future is assured. The ‘30 Minutes Quiz Competition’ and other pro-active, well-thought-out programmes will not only have an immediate impact but are very beneficial in the long run to the youths and the Country at large. The IGP, therefore, called on parents, guardians and academic institutions to encourage their children/wards to participate actively in all of these sets of programs.