WARRI – The people of Isaba community, Warri South West Local Government Area of Delta State, have denied the allegation raised by Aladja community of Udu Local Government Area, of abducting one Kevwe Michael, an indigene of Aladja. In a statement signed by Mr. Henry Ofoleyon and Austin Deinfegha, Chairman and Secretary of Isaba Central Government respectively, the community frowned at reports making such insinuation, which they described as a ploy to truncate the peace deal recently brokered by the state government between both communities. The people of Isaba community, while outlining events which transpired in the alleged abduction, sued for the sustenance of the new found peace, as both communities could be an epicentre of crisis in the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The statement reads, “Kevwe Michael was not abducted by lsaba people. We do not intend to join issues with Aladja and their obvious insincerity to the peace process by refusing to open up the road leading to Isaba but to state the unassailable facts of what transpired on January 22, 2020. “We have severally reported the ungodly behaviour of Aladja youths, always coming to destroy our farms and farmlands, vandalising the NEPA lines from Aladja to Isaba to their leaders, particularly Mr. Ogbiravita Otto, President General of Aladja community. “On that fateful day, hearing the sound of motor saw at the backyard of our community (Isaba) some boys went to the scene and saw some Aladja indigenes cutting down our economic trees (rubber plantation). When they were asked to explain the reason for this provocative actions, they said, no permission is required from Isaba people since there is a peace agreement. “The armless Isaba boys that met them saw this unwholesome act as another ploy by Aladja people to cause confusion that may lead to break down of the peace process. “As a peace loving people, hardened believers of the Governor Okowa peace initiative, we dashed down to the scene and I called the Aladja Community President General to come and see what his people were doing. “He told us to wait that he would like to be accompanied by security men. We waited until he came with some soldiers and the DPO of Warri South West local government area. We handed over Mr. Kevwe Michael and the items to them in the presence of the security men. “We made it abundantly clear to them on the spot that we are believers of the peace process but the incessant encroachment, invasion and wanton destruction of our farms and farmlands is something they have to stop. “Since no sacrifice is too much for the desired peace, we should be informed of any of their legitimate agricultural activities in our communities. “This is exactly what happened. To turn around and come up with such spurious claims of abduction is another calculated attempt to hoodwink the public which we consider as a strategy of war. Brothers may quarrel, but now that we are into the peace process we need to be truthful and have the fear of God in our dealings with each other for the peace to be holistic and genuine.” It would be recalled that in September 2019, a landmark peace settlement was brokered by the Delta State government, where Aladja and Isaba communities signed a pact to end their 43-month feud.