Small businesses are important in the economic development of Nigeria; adequate supply of electricity also important in the process. However, businesses in the country suffer power outages that hamper their operations. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, IKECHI NZEAKO and ANDREW UTULU take a look at how inadequate power contributes to low performance of small businesses in the country. Excerpts: Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) play very important roles in the development of nations, especially in an emerging economy such as Nigeria. They play a significant role in national economy by providing various goods and services, creating job opportunities, developing regional economies and communities, helping the competition in the market and offering innovation. Main areas of their presence are manufacturing industry, distribution industry and services industry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In the manufacturing industry they produce goods by using skills developed historically and accumulated by individuals; they produce products whose raw materials and goods are limited in terms transferable time, operate fields in which are many processing and manufacturing methods and whose economic efficiency can be enhanced by specialising them in the areas of expertise (parts and supporting industry for autos, home electric appliances); Produce product whose market size is too small for big companies to enter; Operate in markets where innovative entrepreneurs take risks, commercialise new technologies and develop new business. In distribution industry they operate in order to distribute a variety of goods efficiently from the manufacturers to consumers and for the reason and need that the existence of many SMEs having businesses tie-ups is essential. In the services industry they operate in the presence of many services provided both to businesses and individuals where due to constrain of time and distance, a large number of SMEs are needed to provide them. SMEs play a big role in the vitalisation and development of national economies because they are creating job opportunities, promotes stability and development of regional economies, produces much of the creativity and innovation that fuels economic progress, promote the competition and cooperation and produce high value added products. Large number of people relies on the small and medium enterprises directly or indirectly. They play a big role with their contribution in labor absorption, poverty alleviation and revenue generation. The critical importance of this sector warrants much more attention by all the stakeholders, which includes government agencies, academia and multinational companies because of their vested interest. Throughout the world, one finds the SMEs to be the employee, the customer and the supplier who provide goods and services to the local market. They also provide the majority of entrepreneurship in any economy. SMEs are the starting point of development in the economies towards industrialisation. Most of the current larger enterprises have their origin in small and medium enterprises. The extra growth over the past several years throughout the industrialised countries has been due in large to the growth of SMEs. There is a growing recognition that the market economy starts by establishing small and medium-sized enterprises, and then it is developed by developing the SMEs dynamically. Entrepreneurs establish companies, start business, acquire or change management resources, accumulate them and expand their business. These activities of SMEs represent a big driving force behind the development of a national economy. An increased number of SMEs will bring more flexibility to society and the economy and might facilitate technological innovation. They produce predominantly for the domestic market, drawing in general on national resources. They use and develop predominantly domestic technologies and skills. New business development is a key factor for the success of regional reconversion where conventional heavy industries will have to phased out or be reconstructed, especially in the field of metallurgy, coalmining, heavy military equipment. SMEs have a propensity to employ more labour-intensive production processes than large enterprises. Consequently, they contribute significantly to the provision of productive employment opportunities, the generation of income and, eventually, the reduction of poverty. Meanwhile entrepreneurs have established enterprises on their own resources, efforts and self-responsibility in order to make the living for their own and their employees. Therefore, the role of SMEs that creates corporations and conduct business activities is very important. So, the main objective is to ensure incentives for such activities while promoting business practices that enhance the fair competitiveness among them. In addition, SMEs play significant contribution in the transition of agriculture-led economies to industrial ones furnishing plain opportunities for processing activities, which can generate sustainable source of revenue and enhance the development process. The modern SMEs are mostly defined in terms of the size of investment & labour force. The industries (Development & Regulation) defines, SMEs having less than 50 workers with the aid of power or less than 50 workers with the aid of power. Government is extending various steps towards SMEs. In addition, the SMEs have been supported and encouraged by various government policies for infrastructure support, technology up-gradation, preferential access to credit, preferential policy support, etc. Specific Contributions of Small Scale Sector *The contribution of small-scale sector to the manufacturing sector and GDP as a whole is significant in terms of its share in total value added. *Small scale sector performs to the manufacturing sector and GDP, as a whole is significant in terms of its share in total value added. *SMEs can play a role in mitigating the problem of imbalance in the balance of payment accounts through its export promotion. *While the large-scale industries are expected to increase the inequities of income and concentration of wealth, SMEs are expected to help widespread equal distribution of income and wealth. *Small sector may provide opportunities to a large number of capable and potential entrepreneurs who are deprived of appropriate opportunities. *It can help to release scarce capital towards productive use. *SMEs can reap the benefits of lean production and can find new cost-efficient techniques of lean production. *As small units can use resources more efficiently to the full capacity without any wastage, they may have higher allocation efficiency. As the element of risk is low in SMEs, more resources will be employed by large number of labor force. Energy plays the most vital role in the economic growth, progress, and development, as well as poverty eradication and security of any nation. Uninterrupted energy supply is a vital issue for all countries today, especially for a developing nation like Nigeria. Future economic growth crucially depends on the long-term availability of energy from sources that are affordable, accessible, and environmentally friendly. Security, climate change, and public health are closely interrelated with power supply. Energy is an important factor in all the sectors of any country’s economy. The standard of living of a given country can be directly related to the per capita energy consumption. The recent world’s energy crisis is due to two reasons: the rapid population growth and the increase in the living standard of whole societies. The per capita energy consumption is a measure of the per capita income as well as a measure of the prosperity of a nation. Energy supports the provision of basic needs such as cooked food, a comfortable living temperature, lighting, the use of appliances, piped water or sewerage, essential health care (refrigerated vaccines, emergency, and intensive care), educational aids, communication (radio, television, electronic mail, the World Wide Web), and transport. Energy also fuels productive activities including agriculture, commerce, manufacturing, industry, and mining. Conversely, a lack of access to energy contributes to poverty and deprivation and can contribute to the economic decline. Energy and poverty reduction are not only closely connected with each other, but also with the socioeconomic development, which involves productivity, income growth, education, and health. The energy crisis, which has engulfed Nigeria for more than two decades, has been enormous and has largely contributed to the incidence of poverty by paralyzing industrial and commercial activities during this period. The Council for Renewable Energy of Nigeria estimates that power outages brought about a loss of N126 billion ($ 984.38 million) annually. Apart from the huge income loss, it has also resulted in health hazards due to the exposure to carbon emissions caused by constant use of ‘backyard generators’ in different households and business enterprises, unemployment, and high cost of living leading to a deterioration of living conditions. SMESs And Inadequate Power Supply Access to power expands the number and variety of business and job opportunities available. Electricity means that small businesses, such as barbers’ hairdressing salons, laundromats, welders rely on energy to function. Energy also leads to the creation of new markets, businesses and job openings, which provide more opportunities for individuals to earn an income and lift them, their families and communities out of poverty. A lack of a consistent access to reliable power costs businesses and the economy as a whole. Even with access to energy, unreliable power makes operating a business even more challenging than usual. Nigerian business and manufacturing enterprises experience power outages. As a result, firms lose sales revenues in the informal sector. Where back-up generators are limited, losses are higher. These losses have severe consequences for the health and growth of the wider economy, not to mention the dramatic impact in achieving other development objectives outlined by the sustainable development goals (SDGs). Owners of small businesses in Nigeria seem to have adapted to the poor power and epileptic power supply in the country as they have resorted to alternative forms of getting electricity to power their businesses. Those that suffer most now are the SMEs and the micro operators that rely on generators, more so now that the fuel is not even available, their problems have been compounded. With a remarkable increase in operational cost and poor purchasing power of consumers, the manufacturing companies have had to lay off thousands in the last six months, with about three million still to go. A report of the Good Governance Initiative (GGI), a non-governmental organisation advocating uninterrupted power supply in the country, says Nigerians spend N3.5 trillion on fueling their gen­erators annually. The rough business climate has forced many companies to close shops, while the sur­viving ones are retrenching workers daily. Owners and operators of small businesses and large corporations in various sectors of the economy who I was able to speak whit said that the worsened power supply and scarcity of fuel had further exacerbated the ease of doing business. Given the role of carbon in escalating climate change disasters, stakeholders and experts are calling for development of renewable energy in the country. They said the development of renewable energy is the key to the development of any nation. Since energy has been regarded by many economists and many researchers as the engine that drives the economy of a nation, investment in renewable energy is, therefore, paramount for any nation to develop. According to them, solar power saves money. They say the installation may be expensive but in the end, it is cheaper. Solar power provides energy reliability. The rising and setting of the sun are extremely consistent all across the world. They say said solar power provides energy independence. Similar to the energy security boost, solar power provides the great benefit of energy independence. Again, the “fuel” for solar panels cannot be bought or monopolised. It is free for all to use. It is with no doubt that the only solution to Nigeria’s epileptic power problem and how it causes great loss to both small and medium enterprises is for individuals and the Nigerian government to invest in renewable energy such as solar panels. The way forward for both SMEs and the government is to invest in pay-as-you-go solar option which enables all shop owners and also business owners to have 24 hours uninterrupted power supply and in turn, it will increase productivity and raise the living standard of all SMEs operators in Nigeria. Energy Situation In Nigeria Nigeria is Africa’s energy giant. It is the continent’s most prolific oil-producing country, which, along with Libya, accounts for two-thirds of Africa’s crude oil reserves. Most of Africa’s bitumen and lignite reserves are found in Nigeria. In its mix of conventional energy reserves, Nigeria is simply unmatched by any other country on the African continent. It is not surprising; therefore, that energy export is the mainstay of the Nigerian economy. Also, primary energy resources dominate the nation’s industrial raw material endowment. Several energy resources are available in Nigeria in abundant proportions. The country possesses the world’s sixth largest reserve of crude oil. Nigeria has an estimated oil reserve of 36.2 billion barrels. It is increasingly an important gas province with proven reserves of nearly 5,000 billion. The oil and gas reserves are mainly found and located along the Niger Delta, Gulf of Guinea, and Bight of Bonny. Most of the exploration activities are focused in deep and ultra-deep offshore areas with planned activities in the Chad basin, in the northeast. Coal and lignite reserves are estimated to be 2.7 billion tons, while tar sand reserves represent 31 billion barrels of oil equivalent. The identified hydroelectricity sites have an estimated capacity of about 14,250 MW. Nigeria has significant biomass resources to meet both traditional and modern energy uses, including electricity generation. There has been a supply and demand gap as a result of the inadequate development and inefficient management of the energy sector. The supply of electricity, the country’s most used energy resource, has been erratic. However, electricity is required for such basic developmental services as pipe borne water, health care, telecommunications, and quality education. The poverty eradication and Universal Basic Education programs require energy for success. The absence of reliable energy supply has not only left the rural populace socially backward, but has also left their economic potentials untapped. Fortunately, Nigeria is blessed with abundant renewable energy resources such as solar, wind, biomass, and small hydropower potentials. The logical solution is increased penetration of renewables into the energy supply mix. Inadequate source of energy due to poor electricity supply growth is the second and the most significant limitations to small businesses. Other identified factors are lack of adequate network for phone connections; lack of application of technology could help create positive impact; and higher infrastructure costs and due to insecure power supply. Insecure power supply impact negatively more on small businesses in contrast to large firms; hence most of the small businesses closed their businesses. Thus the absence of stable electricity supply results into insecurity and impinged heavily on the ability of the productive sectors of the economy to render the required services to the citizens. Electricity consumers in the country live with harrowing experiences of power outages for many days and at times months.  Power outages have negative effect on the performance of small and medium scale enterprises. Ola Adewale, a Lagos-based entrepreneur said that there is a link between SME development and GDP growth but did not say if it is responsible for economic growth. Adewale said that inadequate source of energy due to poor electricity supply growth is the second and the most significant limitations to small businesses growth in the country. He identified other factors as lack of adequate network for phone connections lack of application of technology could help create positive impact; and higher infrastructure costs and due to insecure power supply. Insecure power supply impact negatively more on small businesses in contrast to large firms; hence most of the small businesses closed their businesses. Consequently, the absence of stable electricity supply results into insecurity and impinged heavily on the ability of the productive sectors of the economy to render the required services to the citizens. The challenges faced by Nigerians in terms of electricity supply have been well documented in the power and electricity literature. Electricity consumers in the country live with harrowing experiences of power outages for many days and at times months. … It is generally agreed that power outages have negative effect on the performance of small and medium scale enterprises. Mr. Wemi Jones, a chartered stockbroker and banker, and an authorised dealer on the Nigeria Stock Exchange floor, said for the country to see desired development in the economy, a Small and Medium Enterprise Fund must be established. He noted that the fund must have a single-digit interest rate arrangement for borrowers. Jones said the peculiar nature of the country’s business environment required a conscious and strategic approach to distort the status quo and give the economy the needed boost, especially now that it had gradually exited recession. He said the Nigerian banking industry had really grown and commended some policies of the different Central Bank of Nigeria governors. But he stressed that more should be done to impact on the businesses of various SMEs in the country, so that major positive economic impact could be felt. According to him,  the current interest rate regime in most commercial banks for SMEs only leaves the business  to struggle all through, with little or nothing to show for their efforts over the years. He said: “In the past, banks were very small and there was a proliferation of banks prior to consolidation in the industry. Now, banks are stronger and more stable; and should be able to do more as far as the SMEs are concerned. “But the Nigerian banks are not as supportive to small businesses as they ought to be. Some show interest when they see that the business you are proposing has the propensity to repay the loan being applied for. The banks can still do a lot better. “Banks are very attracted to short-term financing at the expense of long term, and such disposition cannot do much to turn the economy around positively and guaranty meaningful development. “ In Nigeria now, the bank are doing so well while the companies, which are giving the banks business, are not doing well. That means there is a fundamental problem” Rising overheads in most of these companies, according to Jones, is the major reason why they are not doing well; of which the overheads include diesel, security, tax expenses, among others. Jones,  who runs Ibietan Farms Limited , an integrated farm located in Aiyede, Kabba/Bunu Local Government Area, said about 50 per cent of his firm’s overhead was on diesel. For businesses in Lagos, he said because of the current situation at Apapa, the price of diesel had gone up; not due to scarcity of the product, but because trucks could not access the points of loading. He said: “Some businesses can close down if this situation lingers for another three months or less. Margins of businesses are being eroded by these rising overheads. “Also, multiple-taxation is causing our running costs to rise as all kinds of tax are levied against businesses amid challenges they are being confronted with.