Samuel Ogidan; Innocent Oweh Abuja – Senators of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and that of All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday clashed over call for President Muhammadu Buhari to resign for his alleged failure to protect the country from the hands of Boko Haram, bandits and others. The clash followed the debate on the motion titled, ‘Nigerian security challenges: urgent need to restructure, review and reorganise the current security architecture’, sponsored by Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, and 105 others. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Senate, in its resolutions, urged President Buhari to declare a national security emergency and also invited the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to appear before it and brief it on the modus operandi of community policing. The upper chamber of the National Assembly also set up a 17-man ad hoc committee to engage the security agencies and report back in two weeks for further legislative action. It also asked the committee to engage the National Security Adviser on the implementation modalities of the December, 2019 National Security Strategies; engage the National Security Institutions to discuss their operational structures, funding, equipment and staff disposition with a view to reviewing the national security architecture to make it more responsive in tackling the myriad security challenges facing the nation. And also to produce a draft implementation modality/blueprint on the ways and means of tackling the current security challenges for the consideration of the Senate. In his remark, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who presided over the plenary urged Nigerians to pray so that all the resolutions of the Senate will be implemented by the executive. He said: “We should prepare our minds because is not everything that we resolved on that will be implemented by the executive, we have to pray.” Earlier in the debate, PDP and APC lawmakers clashed over call for President Buhari to resign. The clash started when Senate Minority Leader and PDP stakeholder, Enyinnaya Abaribe, was called to contribute on the motion. Abaribe expressed concern over the statement credited to President Buhari that he was shocked and surprised over the level of insecurity in the country. Abiribe said: “Mr. President, this surprise, surprises me.” He also took a swipe on the spokesman of President Buhari, Femi Adesina, that Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) was talking like a political party over the killing of one of its own in Adamawa State. He said: “If CAN is acting like political party, are we also acting like political party? Those who live by propaganda will die by propaganda.” Abaribe noted that on several occasions, Nigerians have been told that Boko Haram and the bandits have been defeated, but the reality on ground stated otherwise. “Nigerians didn’t vote for Inspector General of Police, they didn’t vote for service chiefs, we elected a government in 2015. The government can no longer secure us. The government should resign. They told us when they came that if they don’t do well, we should stone them. We are going with the stone to stone them now because they have failed.” Former governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Adamu, an APC lawmaker, countered Abaribe, asking him to retract his comment and apologise, adding that the debate should be approached with responsibility. Speaking on the way forward, some lawmakers, who spoke, were divided over the creation of state police. While some said that creation of state police will destroy the nation’s democracy, others said that the gain will outweigh the challenges. Some of the lawmakers called for the sack of all the service chiefs, as they are bereft of ideas, adding that new people with new ideas should be injected into the services. In his contribution, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, said that security architecture is no longer effective as it should be, adding that it has been overstretched. He said if the state governors find it difficult to pay salaries, how will they be able to cope with state police, noting that state police will be abused by state governors. Adamu Aliero, the former governor of Kebbi State, said that for Nigeria to have state police, some relevant sections of the constitution must be amended and must go to the state Assemblies to support the amendment. On the issue of banditry, kidnapping for ransom, he said every SIM card is registered, urging the state government to buy tracking devise for the police to do their work. He said they should increase the police to three million, adding that army are not supposed to engage in internal operations. George Thomson Sekibo said that Nigerians are reaping what they sowed, adding that they should go back to God in prayer and ask for forgiveness of sin. Former governor of Ogun, Ibikunle Amosun, said that the best thing is for every state to have their own police while the main police still work, dousing the fears that governors will abuse it. He said the benefit of state police will be far more than the negative. The 17-member ad hoc committee set up by the Senate to look into the security situation are Yahaya Abdullahi (Senate Leader), who is the chairman of the committee; Enyinnaya Abaribe (Minority Leader), a member. Other members are Sabi Abdullahi, Ali Ndume, Aliyu Wammakko, Haliru Jika, Kashim Shettima, Bala Ibn Na’Allah, George Sekibo, Ibrahim Gobir, Suleiman Kwari, Geisham Bassey, Stella Odua, Ibikunle Amosun, Abba Moro, Yusuf Abububakar and Kabiru Gaya. Call For Buhari To Resign Foolish Talk— Presidency The presidency has dismissed as foolishness the call by Senator Abaribe that President Muhammadu Buhari should resign as president. Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, rose to his principal’s defence in Abuja on Wednesday, saying, “Buhari to resign on what basis? “Just because some characters think that President Buhari should resign, then they expect him to quit. That call does not represent the opinion of the country. This is the opinion of an arm chair critic, known for making stray comments. “If a leader like President Buhari needs to resign, there are millions of other Nigerians who need to resign, including Senator Abaribe who unlocked the door to enable the escape of traitorous and treasonable suspects. “He signed the bond for the court to release Nnamdi Kanu on bail, from which moment the suspect disappeared into the thin air. Senator Abaribe has failed repeated deadlines to return Kanu to the court for trial, yet he has the effrontery with which to accuse someone of failing to the bidding of the law. “This is a man who should have replaced the suspects he failed to produce in the correctional facility. “Abaribe’s party raped the nation and left it collapsing in 2015 and President Buhari is fixing things up all the years he is in office.”