LAGOS  – Dana Air has said that its target is to airlift at least 7.5 million passengers in all its routes before the end of the first quarter of 2020. The airline in its 11 years of operation, said in 2019 that it had airlifted 5.4 million passengers within the period. A statement by Mr. Kingsley Ezenwa, the Media and Communications Manager of the airline, said that with its current fleet of nine aircraft, its target was to grow its passenger traffic to 7.2 million. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said: “We have been here for the past 11 years, doing what we know how to do best passionately and persistently. “With a fleet size, which we have progressively grown to nine aircraft, our target is to hit about 7.2m flown passengers by the first quarter of 2020. We are orderly and we like to take one step at a time. We are presently consolidating while sticking to our strategic fleet and route expansion plan.” Besides, the statement hinted that the airline was recently recognised as the ‘Most Stable Airline in Nigeria’ at the 2019 Air Transport Industry Awards held in Lagos. According to him, Princess Supo Atobatele, the Editor-in-Chief of Air Transport Quarterly Magazine, while speaking during the ceremony said the award was in honour of some of the industry’s finest individuals and corporate bodies whose penchant for hard work, innovation and capacity building had not only greatly improved the business of air transport, but enhanced safety of the air space. According to him, Dana Air bagged the award as a result of its consistency and stable operations offering safe and reliable air transport in the past few years. Reacting to the award, Ezenwa said: “The reward for hard work is more work. There is no better way to end the year 2019 than recognition like this.” Ezenwa, however, dedicated the award to the airline’s customers for their loyalty and support for the last 11 years and reassured them of the carrier’s commitment to continue providing safe, comfortable, on time and reliable air transport