ASABA – Ijaw group operating under the auspices of Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI) has declared total support for the formation of Amotekun, a security outfit established by the South West Governors. It charged South South governors to also collaborate in similar manner, stressing that Amotekun is a welcome development. The group, while lampooning the Federal Government over it failure to protect citizens’ lives and properties, declaring their support for the regional security outfit, stressing that Nigerians had lost confidence in the nation’s security apparatus. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to IPDI, the Nigeria Police Force, instead of protecting lives and properties in the country, had been busy parading with POS to chase Yahoo boys. The group made their position known in a statement on Saturday issued by Comrade Austin Ozobo, the IPDI National President. Ozobo said:  “As Ijaw people, we throw our weight behind the formation of ‘Operation Amotekun’ in the South West. It is a welcome development. We must defend ourselves against Boko Haram terrorists spread in the country. “We must defend ourselves against the spread of killer herdsmen since the government has failed to protect lives and properties in the country. “Nigeria security is being controlled by the Hausa/Fulanis. It is what they told the police that is what they are doing in the country. Herdsmen are still killing people because the police and other security forces have compromised, being the fact that herdsmen are their brothers. “Boko Haram is increasing and becoming dangerous because Nigeria security system has been compromised. We can no longer risk our lives for a security that is loyal to a section of religion and tribe in the country. “The formation of Amotekun is timely and a round peg in a round hole. Amotekun formation has not breach any known law in the country. We have the Hisbah in the North. We have Sharia police in the North. We have Civilian JTF in North East. All are being empowered to carry fire arm. The government has not said such groups are illegal. “The issue of security being a business of the Federal Government has nothing to do with people providing internal defence for themselves. The government is making blind argument on Amotekun. Power is in the exclusive list, yet the Federal Government allows states to spend much money for power. “Water is in the Exclusive List. Yet, it is happy when states make frantic efforts to provide water to their states. Security is in Exclusive List. Yet, it allows state governments to spend more on maintaining security in their states. “You are coming to make blind argument because we say we want to provide internal mechanism for our safety because the police and other security networks in the country have failed us. “The action of the government towards ‘Operation Amotekun’ is shameful. As far as Ijaws are concerned, you cannot quantify individual efforts to sustainable peace in the country. We, as citizens, do more of the security of our environment than what police and other security apparatus are doing.”