Mallam Shakirudeen Olalekan Olofin is the Chairman, New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Lagos State chapter. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he takes a look at the politics of 2019, even as he foretells what politics will look like in 2020 and beyond. Excerpts: How do you see the 2019 politics in Nigeria? I congratulate Lagosisans in particular and Nigerians in general for the success of the 2019 general elections. I also thank God for taking us into the New Year. May God crown our efforts politically. We had elections that ushered in new executives at the federal and state levels. Economically, the nation did not perform very badly. We had great experiences which will take us into 2020 and beyond. 2019 taught us great lessons we cannot forget in a hurry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Talking about the lessons of 2019, could you name some of them? 2019 taught us self-reliance. The border closure has brought us up. A lot of products came up. We depended on foreign goods, but the border closure opened our eyes that we can depend on ourselves. During the 2019 general elections, a lot of prominent politicians failed, despite their money and influence. The masses spoke. In sports, we performed well. In all, 2019 taught great lessons to Nigerians. One of the political cases decided in 2019 was the one between President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Abubakar Atiku, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). How did you see the Supreme Court verdict on the case? The 2019 Presidential Election Appeal Tribunal, that is the Supreme Court, which sat between Atiku and Buhari did well. They did a yeoman’s job on the process. The tribunal showed that the Judiciary is independent. This showed in the delivery of their judgment. They interpreted the constitution very brilliantly. But, legal luminaries may see it from different perspectives. But, the tribunal showed that the judiciary is the last recourse by the masses. How do you see President Buhari’s performance last year? President Buhari performed above average in 2019. He did well in infrastructure. He performed brilliantly on agriculture. Today, seven percent of rice eaten by Nigerians is grown in the country. In terms of power, the megawatts have improved. I give him pass mark, although there is still much to be done. In education, the budget allocation should be looked into. The one for 2019 was poor. There should be a tremendous increase in allocation to education. Education is the bedrock of development in any nation. Nigeria should not be an exception. The Federal Government should declare a state of emergency in education sector if they are concerned about the future of Nigeria. Great nation have moved from traditional courses. Information Technology is the way to go. How would you access the Federal Government’s performance in the area of security? The government should show to Nigerians that they were elected to serve the people. The rate of kidnapping, herdsmen’s killings, violence in every part of the country in 2019 was alarming. The government should sit up and ensure safety of lives and properties. We hope this violence will abate in 2020. Although normalcy is returning to Borno and Benue states, the citizens have a lot of roles to play. But, the government was elected to save lives and properties. Failure in this aspect is a failure of the government. Still on security, what is your view on the recent attack on the home of former President Goodluck Jonathan in Otuoke, Bayelsa State? This came immediately after the governorship election in Bayelsa State. The attack on Jonathan’s home is a big slap on the security apparatus of Nigeria. Also, it questions the security understanding of the state governor, Seriake Dickson. If such attack could be carried out under the governor’s nose and we have not had any arrest, the governor, the police commissioner in the state, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) in the state should be questioned. The Minister of Defence should also be queried. The last elections that took place in 2019 were the Bayelsa and Kogi States governorship elections. How did you see what transpired in the two states? In Bayelsa, APC won. That was the first time PDP lost Bayelsa. I was not surprised that APC won. The victory was ushered in by the influence of the former First Lady, Mrs. Patience Jonathan. Her involvement by coming all out and giving support for the APC candidate cleared the way for victory of APC’s candidate. That was another big lesson of 2019. Politicians should do away with the attitude for being tin gods when they are in power. The Bayelsa governor, Dickson, should go back to the drawing board. He may be thinking that he is ending his second term. But, he may be seeking election as a senator. Jonathan got to the position of president because he was loyal to Alamieseigha as deputy governor. That cleared the way for him to become governor, then vice president and lastly president. We should learn that power is transient. No one can hold it forever. Whatever you do while you are in power will be waiting for you in future. Dickson was brought to the limelight by Patience Jonathan, who supported him in the PDP governorship primaries and the election proper. Dickson should go and prostrate to the PDP leaders in Bayelsa State and accept that he erred by dragging the superiority of the party with the party leaders. What is your reaction to what transpired in the Kogi State governorship election? The Kogi governorship election was also a straight win for APC. The other parties were not well prepared, beginning from their primaries. We expected political bigwigs to have won the primaries in some of the parties. But, we saw what the result looked like. We are all witnesses to the outcome. There was no way Yahaya Bello would have been returned due to his poor performance. Unfortunately, he had no se serious contender. The police did not help matters. There was a lot of violence before, during and after the election. Even the PDP candidate was a political neophyte. All these contributed to the APC victory in that election. How would you rate the performance of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the elections that held in 2019? The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed woefully during the voter registration. They also failed during the collection of the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). But, the failure of INEC translates to the failure of the nation. The big political parties were the number one culprits. The government needs to strengthen the system. The politicians and the people should also learn to play their part too. Elections should have been better than what obtains now. We have had 20 years of uninterrupted democracy. Someone who is learning a trade should have become perfect in 20 years. We should have learnt our trade better that what obtains now. By 20 years, we should have become perfect. What is your take on the call for adoption of electronic voting as a solution to electoral malpractices in the country? Electronic voting is not the solution to challenges of voting in Nigeria. It is the system that is the problem. In Lagos, we had 6.5 million voters, 5.8 million collected their PVCs. During elections, 1.1 cast their votes. Even with vote buying, rigging, only 1.1 million voted. It was baffling. So, we need to strengthen the system. We need a re-orientation on how to do it better. Edo and Ondo elections will be holding later this year. With the crises in both parties in the states involving the state governors, how do you think the elections would go? Elections come every four years. Nigeria should be prepared to rewrite history. In Ondo, the people should weigh the performance of Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. Is it good for him to continue in office? Or, did they need a better alternative? The masses should do away with vote buying. N5, 000 cannot last forever. Ondo and Edo governorship elections will be litmus tests that we want to do away with our bad attitudes. The National Orientation Agency (NOA) in those states should create more orientation or awareness on public participation and speak to the people against vote buying. Do you see APC retaining both Ondo and Edo states, during the elections this year? The answer rests solely with the people of Ondo and Edo States. No individual is bigger than the people. The governor is not bigger than the state. Despite the crisis between the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki, the masses should evaluate the performance of the governor and know what is good for them. Crises will not deter or debar the APC from victory. Intra-party wrangling can be settled within one hour. Before election, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State was in the bad book of everybody. In the last campaign, Governor Nasir el-Rufai begged the masses. Aisha Buhari knelt down and begged. Was it surprising that Bello won? Internal crisis can be resolved. That may be a gimmick to weaken other parties. We saw former President Olusegun Obasanjo tearing his PDP card. He castigated Atiku Abubakar, even in his book. But in the last general elections, Obasanjo supported Atiku. We should look at the performance of the governors. Oshiomhole brought out Obaseki. It will not take one hour to resolve the problem between the two if the APC really wants to win in Edo Sate. I am not saying that APC will win in the states. But, people should weigh the performances of the governors in both states. They should not be emotional about it. Do you think other parties will stand a chance in Edo and Ondo states governorship elections? My take is that other political parties should not go to sleep. We have allowed Nigerians to think that it is only APC and PDP that exist in Nigeria. We have left our primary assignments and are running after some parties that have made name. My party, the NNPP, is older that APC and is as old as the PDP. If we have given the masses enough public awareness, we would have registered our presence in the minds of the people. But, most of the parties spring up just before elections. Although they do not have the financial muscles like APC and PDP, there are social interventions the small parties can do regularly to register their presence in the mind of the masses. Do you foresee the possibility of alliances by the small parties to break the APC and PDP in these states? Alliances? The problem of alliances is the problem of Nigerian politics. We do things at the 11th hour. The issue of trust is a major problem of alliances. Now, two or three smaller parties can come together to challenge the status quo. In 2011, we formed COPPILS, that is Coalitions of Political Parties In Lagos, to challenge the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) candidate then. We really pulled weight and a cult like followership. We directly challenged the status quo. But, some of us sold out. If two or three parties come together, they can defeat APC and PDP in Ondo and Edo states. What is your take on the shape of politics in 2020? 2020 is a leap year. Every leap year spring surprises. Politicians as a matter of urgency begin to reach out to the masses with their manifestoes that are people-friendly and also start to create social interventions that will ameliorate the suffering of the masses. Doing this will properly position them for 2023 and give them an edge to win elective positions. Talking about masses reach, how do you see the efforts of the #RevolutionNow protests and the rising influence of the Leftist movement in the nation’s politics? There is never a place in history that will allow a breakdown of law and order. Power has always been with the masses. It is not one who could not win election that will tell us how to run our elections. Someone who cannot win 30,000 votes cannot bring a change. As much as we want a people-oriented governors and leaders, we should not be blindfolded to the extent that we will give leadership to one who cannot boast of having control of a ward, not to talk of a zone. We will not give power to such. Nigerians are highly calculative people. In 2015, we saw predictions all over the world that Nigeria would cease to exist. But we put them to shame and today, Nigeria is still standing as giant of Africa. We have learnt by our past mistakes. We saw results of unnecessary civil war. We will not be pushed to that. The revolution should be done at the polls. We will send into oblivion all leaders in animal skin, using the ballot paper. Before 2019 ended, we heard about court invasion by operatives of the DSS as well as allegations of human rights abuses against the Federal Government. What is your take on these? The Federal Government scored zero when it comes to obeying rule of law. The invasion of the court by DSS operatives showed high level of immorality by the law enforcers. Such should not be allowed to repeat itself. There is no agency, ministry or individual that is greater than Nigeria; they are put in place to serve Nigeria and not the other way round. Allocations should be in the auspices or conformity of the law. The last hope of the less privileged should not be taken away. How do you see the rumoured presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the National Leader of the APC? His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has every right to contest the presidential candidacy of his party if he so wishes. Throwing tantrums at him because people saw posters and banners are not good. We have not heard from him. He is a Nigerian and has every right to contest the highest office of the nation. He has very rich credentials to do this. He is competent, a political juggernaut, vast, with financial muscle to contest the position. People and his party should accept him. Let people wait for him to declare his intention before judging whether he is right or not. How do you see the administration of Lagos under Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu so far? Governance is about people. There is no government that excels without the contributions of the people, we have a role to play to ensure that the people in governance excel. I thank Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for hearkening to the voice of reason by speeding up on road constructions across the state and on payment of N35, 000 minimum wage. Lagos is a pacesetter. Everything good starts from there. I am proud of him. But, governance is a very serious business. It is not Uhuru yet. He needs to do more. He should buckle up and start the business of governance in earnest. There is so much left undone in the state. He and his team need to show Lagosians that they are prepared for the task at hand. 2023 is at the door step. We have stated collecting data of his scorecard. He should pray that he should come out successfully. Talking about 2023, how is your party getting ready considering its loss in 2019 elections? In Lagos, do you want to know if we will take over the leadership of Lagos State from Babajide Sanwo-Olu? We are well prepared to take the bull by the horn. We have understood the business of government for the past 16 years. We have been very good students, observing the government of Lagos State since the Tinubu’s era in 1999. We have gathered very rich data on how to wrestle power from the status quo. At the national level, what is your party doing towards the 2023 general elections? At the national level, the movement we are observing is the same good wind that will usher in ANPP into Aso Rock come 2023. We may not have the financial muscle. We may not have the state police. We may not have the thugs. But, our manifesto is highly people-oriented. That will give us the expected victory at the poll in 2023. We have a great leader in the person of Dr. Boniface Aniebonam. NNPP is a party to beat come 2023.