Abdulrazak Abdulrhaman, Governor, Kwara State, takes family feud with the Sarakis to a new height after signing off on repossession and demolition of the late political godfather’s political mobilisation ground, sparking off fresh rounds of concerns as to the governor’s motive on the matter, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE. In politics according to the playbook of Abdulrhaman Abdulrazak, Governor of Kwara State, one good turn hardly deserves another, at least, going by his recent decision to repossess and order demolition of properties on Plots 1, 3 and 5 Ilofa Road, GRA, Ilorin, popularly known as Ile Arugbo, (Old People’s home), registered in the name of Asa Investment Limited (AIL), but largely believed to be owned by late political strongman of Ilorin politics, Abubakar Olusola Saraki. The action contrasts directly with the action taken by Abdulfatah Ahmed, his predecessor, some years back on another plot of land in the same locality, said to belong to Raliat Abdulrazak, mother of the current governor at the height of the political rivalry between the Sarakis and the family of the current governor. Ahmed was single handedly installed by Bukola Saraki, former Senate President, to succeed him after his eight years tenure in 2007. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The said land, directly opposite Civil Service Clinic, in the same area as Ile Arugbo, had the Raliat Foundation and later converted to Coppers Lodge, was said to have posed security threat at the time after a number of ritual killings at the time. At the time, the state government proposed acquisition of the land for “overriding public interest” so as to be developed as a means of stopping the use of the place for dastardly killings. But fearing a possible political backlash and misinterpretation of the action by the Ahmed administration, the then governor had offered to buy off the land from the Abdulrazak’s family. Even when the offer was blatantly refused by the owners, the then administration wouldn’t force it. But with the current episode on Saraki’s own property, political commentators in Ilorin see it as Abdulrazak paying back a courtesy with an evil coin. The feud between the Abdulrazaks, the governor’s family, and Sarakis, that of the late political patriarch is probably as old as modern day politics of Kwara State. While no one can say for sure what brought about the feud, what not a few commentators agree on is that the Saraki family has been the favoured one by the Ilorin Emirate and other dynastic power holdings in the state and beyond. The land reacquisition episode, in the last one week, has left Ilorin fizzing with stories believed to have been long forgotten of alleged family feud between both the Abdulrazaks and the Sarakis. As interpreted by Saraki sympathizers, Abdulrazak is allegedly out to stymie the late politician’s legacy. Ile Arugbo, the property in contention, is the rendezvous of the aged in Ilorin; where they receive food, financial support and healthcare services sponsored by the late politician and philanthropist. It also formed the fulcrum of the late Saraki’s political machinery. The tradition has remained unbroken years after Olusola Saraki’s death, and still being sustained by his son, Bukola Saraki. The reacquisition and demolition of the place gives the impression that Abdulrazak’s action were purely personal, say some observers. The state’s leading opposition party, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), was quick to cash in on the moment to pile pressure on the governor. “The widespread condemnation that has greeted the revocation of the property is a clear indication that the Governor’s move is not in tandem with the interest of people of Kwara. He is, therefore, advised to listen to the voice of reason and have a rethink,” explained PDP, in the state through its chairman, Ola Shittu. Instructively, the governor’s party at the state level, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has refused to make any statement in response to PDP, which may well confirm growing insinuations that Abdulrazak may have been estranged from his party. Most members of the party used to be political acolytes of the late Olusola Saraki. Critics of the governor’s recent decision on the AIL property also point out the incongruity of Abdulrazak demolishing another man’s father’s legacy at a time he is using state resources to cement his own father’s. For instance, in a sweeping school rehabilitation plan, Government High School (GHS), was selected as one of six schools to be rehabilitated in the Ilorin Emirate. There may be no political undertone to this move on the surface. But to those familiar with Ilorin history, GHS, was at inception, Ilorin College Ilorin (ICI), built, funded and sustained by lawyer AGF Abdulrazak, father of the state’s current governor. He did so for many years until the school was acquired by the state government and renamed GHS. Not only was GHS selected out of three other schools within its proximity at Adewole Ilorin, the expansiveness of rehabilitation leaves no doubt as to sentiment behind the project. Aside rebuilding its class and other buildings, the Kwara State Community and Social Service Development Agency (KCSSA), under whose purview the project would take place, intends to build a Braille Center and Computer skill acquisition unit within the school, Sunday INDEPENDENT learnt. “For the past three decades, rehabilitation of the school was largely done by alumni groups of the school and some interventionist agencies. There were little or no input from the family of the founder until now when his son is in power,” explained abdulmumuni Alli, former alumnus of GHS, commenting on the relation between the demolition of Ile Arugbo and the rebuilding of GHS. “We will not be surprised if the school is renamed after AGF Abdulrazak. After all this is Nigeria” Alli added. But the state government insists that the reaquisition of the plots of land and demolition, to wit, was properly done. Ibrahim Suleiman, Director General, Bureau of Lands, Kwara, though admits that the land was allocated in principle to AIL, but he explained that building of Ile Arugbo was improperly done. According to him, the entire land was acquired in the 1970s for Overriding Public Interest and designed to host the Phase II of the State Secretariat. The construction of the said State Secretariat Phase II was actually started and was at the superstructure level before it was abandoned,” Suleiman said in a statement. “The entire land was later redesigned in the 1980s for the construction of a Civil Service Clinic, State Secretariat, and a parking lot for both the Clinic and the State Secretariat. “The Clinic was subsequently constructed in 1982, while the remaining plots of land were conceived for the expansion of the Clinic into a full-fledged Hospital. “The dream of the state government was stalled when part of the land slated for the parking lot was spuriously allocated in principle to one Asa Investment for commercial purpose. “From available records, the allocation was not based on a formal application, nor application forms filled; there was no evidence of payment for the said allocation as stipulated in the letter of allocation in principle and consequently, no right of occupancy was ever issued to the company. “Furthermore, in flagrant abuse of the allocation terms, the company took possession of the land and constructed what is today known as ‘Ile Arugbo’ on part of the land that was designed as parking lot and later conceived to host the expansion of the Civil Service Clinic into a full-fledged Hospital. “Following a resolution of the Kwara State House of Assembly mandating him to revoke/withdraw the spurious allocation, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq recently signed an instrument to reclaim the land on the ground that same was unlawfully allocated to a private Company contrary to the public purpose of its acquisition and occupied in breach of the terms of allocation,” Suleiman clarified. While procedurally, lawyers in Ilorin agree with the state government on the reacquisition, keen observers, especially those who have an understanding of the state’s civil service structure are suspicious of the whole process of revoking the land title. “Is it possible that for more than two decades, Dr. Saraki, politician, former lawmaker and having installed not less than four governors in the state would be careless about properly acquiring the property in contention,” asked a bewildered Sa’adu Orisankoko, a retired civil servant that worked at Bureau of Lands. According to him, even if the Oloye, as the politician is known, did not perfect his papers, his son, while as governor or at the very least, Ahmed, his successor would have done it on his behalf. Saraki, Scion of the late political strongman was quick to refute the claims made by the state government. In his late father’s defense, the former Senate President wondered why of all vacant plots of land in strategic places across Ilorin township, the one that Abdulrahman found useful to acquire was the one owned by late Dr. Saraki. “It is beyond comprehension why a governor would set as his main agenda the objective of undermining and waging a war of attrition against a man who is no longer around,” he said. The former lawmaker insisted that the property in contention had been rightfully allocated to his late father under the name of one of his companies, Asa Investment Limited, since the 1980s. “And contrary to the claim of the governor, the land was properly allocated and a Right of Occupancy title issued on it. It should be noted that the excuse given by Abdulrazaq in his revocation order holds no water since it is clear that this is the height of his vengeance against my father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki and I,” Said the former governor. Also, the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Ruqayyah Saraki, on Friday berated Abdulrazzaq for demolishing her father’s property. She accused the governor of rushing into an attempt to settle perceived old generational family political scores. She said “revenge cannot be a policy thrust of governance.” She said the use of force and violence that the governor chose to adopt was totally unwarranted. She said if her father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, were to be alive, he would have been saddened by the demolition of ‘Ile Arugbo’. She also said the demolition of her father’s political base was “disrespectful” to her. She warned that APC’s victory in the state at the poll in the last general elections might be “short-lived or diminished” if care is not taken. She said the likes of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, who joined APC a few months to the last elections, should not be allowed to mess up the party’s fortunes in the state. She asked the Inspector-General of Police to call the Commissioner of Police in Kwara State to order. The minister, who made her position known in a statement she personally signed, said the art of vengeance is not what President Muhammadu Buhari or the All Progressives Congress (APC) represents. She said it was unfortunate that there are some elements in APC who wanted to change the O to ge narrative of the 2019 elections to be about the Sarakis instead of the failed administration of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara State. But she pleaded with the people of the state, especially her father’s teeming supporters, to be calm and peaceful in the face of provocation by the governor. The statement said: “At 3:00am Thursday 2nd of January 2020, the Governor of Kwara State, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, gave orders to the police to open fire on aged women at the contested welfare home, popularly known as ‘Ile Arugbo’ (home for the aged), owned by my father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki. “As a staunch and loyal member of APC, I have kept quiet to date on the happenings in my state, Kwara State. I had done this for a number of reasons, including trying to “keep my head when all about me are losing theirs.” “But all in all, I had kept quiet, as being a loyal member and supporter of the party, I did not want to get into any squabble with the Governor despite so many provocations. Again, as a loyal and dedicated daughter of my father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, who I hold in very high esteem, I did not want to express my opinion on the propriety of the Governor’s recent political actions as it would be seen as biased because the late Waziri is my father. “However, given the turn of events and the violent nature of the Governor’s position, it is only right for me to speak now.” The Minister cautioned Kwara APC against allowing some elements to turn governance into personal vendetta. She said: “There might have been some elements within my party, APC, who wanted to change the O to ge narrative of the 2019 elections to be about the Sarakis, and not about what it was – the removal of a failing PDP administration. “But clearly, by some recent steps taken, especially with Thursday’s actions, Kwara State APC must be careful to not allow a few elements with their own agenda other than governance to turn their personal vendetta into the official position of APC in the state. “They must not be allowed to hijack the narrative of what our party stands for. “The APC has, since its inception, preached and worked earnestly for genuine good governance, security, increased welfare, progress and development of the people, as exemplified by President Muhammadu Buhari, who in the face of direct provocation and deep personal attacks, remains true to the oath he took to govern all Nigerians in spite of allegiances. “That is why it is important that my silence is not misconstrued as tacit approval or support for the actions taken by the Governor. “As stated earlier, I chose to refrain from commenting on the onset of this land saga and did so for three reasons: (1) I believed that this was a matter that would go through the rightful forum and due process to ascertain and establish my father’s legal rights or otherwise. (2) My family individually and/or collectively has never derived and continues not to derive any commercial benefit from that piece of land. At the end of the day, what is on that land is nothing – no block of flats that the family is getting rent from, no office building, no factory or any other commercial venture; just a bungalow where the old women gather and get their basic needs attended to. (3) Nonetheless, were my father alive today, surely, he would have been saddened to see bulldozers in Ile Arugbo. The Minister said the governor cannot erase her father’s legacies. She said: “However, I am comforted by the knowledge that my father’s good work and his respect, support and love for the aged, which was sadly lacking in the Governor’s activities of Thursday, simply cannot be erased by demolishing a bungalow. “When it comes down to it, Ile Arugbo is a piece of bare land that holds symbolic value of what my father stood for – humanitarianism, and that doesn’t start nor end with a building. “But after the events of Thursday when the aged women were tear gassed and shot at in the wee hours of the morning (3:00 am), I do not want my silence to be misconstrued, as mischief makers have used that silence to attribute false statements allegedly made by me.” She condemned the violence against Sarakites and others who protested against the moves to demolish the bungalow. She said it was disrespectful of the governor to have used the police to shell her personal home. She said the likes of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, who joined APC a few months to the last elections, should not be allowed to mess up the party’s fortunes in the state. She said: “The level of force and violence that the Governor chose to adopt was totally unwarranted. What resistance to protest justifies firing live ammunition and tear gassing old women? “Even my own personal home was not left out of the attack as numerous empty bullet shell casings and dispersed tear gas canisters were found inside my home. “I feel that at this point, not only as a child of the late Waziri but as a member of the APC, I need to speak. “I do so not only as a daughter but as a member of the party, to ensure that those thousands of members of APC who are Sarakites that supported the O to ge movement are not alienated. “In addition, I do so to ensure that the resounding victory that APC enjoyed in Kwara is not short-lived or diminished. “Governments acquire properties, even compulsorily without necessarily resorting to unprovoked violent attacks in the dead of night. “It is especially disrespectful to me personally as a member of the APC since 2015, who welcomed and supported those who only joined us a couple of months to the elections, which includes the Governor himself, that my position as a member of the party was not given any consideration and/or regard when approaching this issue.” In another statement in Ilorin and signed by Alhaji Bibire Ajape, Chairman of the Saraki Legacy Forum, the family stated that following the announcement by the governor that he had revoked the title on the land which had been possessed by the late Saraki for more than 20 years, they filed a case at the High Court, Ilorin, on December 31, 2019, challenging the action. The suit with Number KWS/463/2019 between Asa Investments Limited and Governor of Kwara State, Kwara House of Assembly, Attorney General of Kwara State, Director General of the Bureau of Lands and the Inspector-General of Police was filed on Tuesday. “In an obviously desperate attempt to pre-empt the court case, the state governor directed one of his aides to lead a demolition team to the property on Tuesday morning accompanied by some policemen,” the forum stated. This was not successful as some old women and youths prevented it on Tuesday. It added that on Thursday, the demolition was done. It added, “For hours, their attempt to commence the demolition exercise was rebuffed. At about 3.30am, the security agents began heavy shooting of gun and tear gas canisters to dislodge the people protesting against the demolition. It was after they were able to disperse the crowd that the bulldozer moved into the street and commenced the demolition exercise. “It will be recalled that while the governor on December 27 claimed that there was no existing document showing that the land was properly allocated to the late Dr. Saraki, the same government through its agent on Monday circulated a letter of allocation to Asa Investments owned by Dr. Saraki in which the company was directed to pay the sum of N1, 047, 090 (One Million, Forty Seven Thousand and Ninety Naira only). The government then changed its story that the property was allocated to a company which had nothing to do with any politician, dead or alive and that they could not find any record of money paid. The Saraki family has maintained that a Right of Occupancy title was issued to Asa Investment, an indication that the allocation was lawfully concluded with all parties meeting their obligations. “The pre-emptive move by the state government to demolish the property was made to undermine and frustrate the judicial process and it represents another act of disrespect for the judiciary and the rule of law which the current government of Kwara State is known for. “On our part, we call on supporters of the Saraki family, particularly the women and youth who were brutalised during the attempts to carry out the illegal exercise to maintain peace and not take laws into their hands. We assure them that this illegality will not stand as the family will pursue all legal means to claim the rights of their late patriarch. “The family will like to wish all the numerous supporters of Oloye a happy and prosperous year 2020”, Ajape stated.