Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a public affairs analyst and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview, speaks on the controversy trailing South-West security outfit, Operation Amotekun, and what South—South governors and leaders must do to effectively secure the region. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: declaration of Operation Amotekun as illegal by the federal government? I believe that the Federal Government is wrong by describing the South-West security outfit codenamed, Operation Amotekun as illegal. The Federal Government’s position is unfair and not in tandem with the principle of egalitarianism being preached by the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC)-led administration. Honestly, on the issue of Amotekun, the use of village hunters and vigilante personnel adopted by the security outfit presented the best form of community policing. The grassroots-oriented and bottom-up structured as well as an all-involving security framework, which Amotekun presents, is the ideal policing framework for modern policing to checkmate emerging criminality in rural and remote communities. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I think it is out of place for the Attorney General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami to say the machinery setting up Amotekun is unconstitutional when the Civil Defence, Civilian JTF and Sharia police (Hisbah) that are of similar background and outlook were already in existence. It is also my humble opinion that the right to preserve and protect one’s life can never be in the exclusive list of any government. Why do people employ guards in their houses? Is it not for security purpose? Why do Community Development Associations (CDAs) employ guards to secure streets and areas? Is it not to ensure protection of lives and property?. Is that initiative in the exclusive list of the constitution? The answer is an emphatic No! The Federal Government is expected to complement the efforts of the South-west governors rather than an outright rejection and condemnation of the security outfit. As far as I am concerned, Amotekun could be illegal if the Nigerian Police are up to the task of protecting the lives and property of the citizenry. Are they? Far from it! So it becomes commonsense to come together and secure our homes and property. This shouldn’t give anyone sleepless night. As a matter of fact, it should be supported and commended unless it goes against the lay down rules. If security is the exclusive preserve of the federal government as disclosed by Malami, why do state governors have security votes? Security is daily becoming a big challenge in Nigeria, because of the lack of intelligence gathering and follow up actions, amongst the relevant security outfits and this is where Operation Amotekun fits in. I want to use this medium to call on all South-West residents and Nigerian youths at large to remain calm and be peaceful as ever even as they await the position of the South-west governors and their consultations with the Federal Government on the matter. But in all sincerity, the federal government is wrong by declaring it illegal. What do you think should be the position of South South region on the controversy surrounding Amotekun? The South-South must wake up to the current reality of event in the country. Security of lives and property of the people has gone beyond what should be left alone with the federal government. At this point in time, critical stakeholders must come together to forge a common front against insecurity. The South-South as matter of urgency must come together to adopt the necessary framework on how to secure the lives and property of our people. It is not out of place to have a local security outfit like the Amotekun; however, enabling laws and legislation should be fast-tracked so as to avoid unnecessary controversy as we are currently witnessing with Amotekun of South-West. Do you see Amotekun as a signal or part of the restructuring that PANDEF, Afenifere, Ohaneze, Middle Belt groups have been agitating for over the years? Amotekun and restructuring are two worlds apart, Amotekun is a concept birthed by the Yoruba Governors of South West Nigeria due to threat to security of lives and property, as a way to curb the menace of banditry, kidnappers, cattle rustlers and other criminal activities that has ravaged the region in recent times. Amotekun is just a security outfit for the south-West States, to complement the present security system we have in the country with an operation mandate to serve as a complementary intelligence gathering outfit to the Nigeria security agencies to better safeguard the lives and property of the people of the South West region. In your opinion, what should Federal Government demand for restructuring in view of the Amotekun development? I strongly believe that provision of security is one of the key functions of any responsible and responsive government. It is the priority of the various state governors to ensure that both indigenes and settlers living within the various states can carry out their rightful activities in a safe and secure environment. Therefore security of their lives and properties should be of paramount to the governors hence what the federal should demand is the fast tracking of laws and legislature that would ensure a smooth guideline and operation of the security outfit set-up by these governors. As it has been stated that Amotekun is not a replacement for the Nigerian police rather it is a complimentary architecture for intelligence gathering to better safe guard the lives and properties of the people. What role do you think South South governors can play on this very sensitive matter? The South-South governors must come together under the umbrella body of the South- South Governors Forum to chart a new course of action with unity of purpose for the region and this must be done across party lines and affiliation. They must put the overall interest of the region first before anything else. Unfortunately, the body language of the Governors from the South- South region has not shown any promising light in that direction. Without doubt, if our governors in the South- Sout region can come together beyond politics and party lines to forge a common front for the development of the region, South –South would be the envy of other region across the nation due to its abundance of wealth and natural resources.  