LAGOS – As the clamour for presidency in 2023 gathers momentum, the list of prominent Nigerians desiring to lead the country at the topmost political level seems to be increasing, with the recent expression of interest by Chief Olabode George, former deputy national chairman of Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in South West. Some Nigerians have said that the PDP chieftain deserves to be given a chance, going by his track records of a committed party man, a founding member of the party and one who could be said to be reliable as he has the interest of the nation at heart, from the various contributions he had made in the political space. While announcing the presidential ambition of the PDP chieftain, Special Adviser to the former deputy national chairman of PDP, Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu, said in a statement on Friday, that he had the authority of George to announce his presidential ambition. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to Shodipe-Dosunmu, “We will engage, inform without derogatory withdrawal. We will challenge, debate, instruct without anger, expletive crudity. We will sustain and affirm in deliberate Churchillian supremacy.” He maintained that pretenders and the perennial time-servers should disappear from the fray, stressing that only the robust and the lucid patriotic band should endure. It may not be surprising to see George gunning for the presidency with the wider support he seemed to be enjoying. Just recently, Northern Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) under the leadership of Isa Abubakar, appreciated the huge sacrifices made by the former deputy national chairman of PDP, when it awarded him the title of “Garkuwan Matasan Najeriya”, even as the group urged Nigerian leaders to emulate the exceptional leadership qualities of the PDP national leader. While urging the nation’s leaders to take a cue from George, the group maintained that leaders who have done well should be appreciated and encouraged to spur them into contributing more, just as it stated that some people have taken away things that belonged to the whole citizens, while others have used their resources and time for nation’s growth and development. The NYCN pointed out that Nigerian youth should be able to spot these elders who have done the nation proud and recognise them. Expatiating on the reason for the award, the group explained that the title of “Garkuwan Matasan Najeriya”, which been translated as “Shield of the youth of the entire Northern Nigeria”, describing him as philanthropist per excellence, Isa Abubakar, the National President of the group said that they had come all the way from the North to honour the former deputy national chairman, pointing out that he was not an accidental leader but one that was meant to be a leader, who had served the nation in various capacities, as a military leader without any iota of fear, but boldly confronting the enemies of the nation. “He has contributed so much before the advent of democratic rule and even during the dispensation of democracy; he has not relented in his effort to see the development of the country in no small measures. Those who have built bridges from one community to another to see that each community-related peaceful in a united manner deserve the honour. It is our responsibility in my own generation to come and tell this category of people that they have done well. It is in this strength that we have made this visit today. “A man who has said that the unity of Nigeria is of greater purpose to him than anything else should be recognised. We have come to tell him that the youth of Northern Nigeria are solidly behind him. “We believe in his ideology. He has contributed greatly to the community where he was military administrator, established institutions of learning and that community as of today has produced millions of graduates. He has produced presidents in this country when he campaigned for our brothers in the Northern part of the country, to become presidents. He did that without any iota of diversity. He believed in education,” he said. Abubakar maintained that George would be decorated as grand patron of the Northern Youth Council of Nigeria, as He said that having assisted an uncountable number of them into political positions, without consideration of ethnic or religious affiliations, the PDP chieftain deserved to be encouraged. George was also presented with a leadership certificate as a philanthropist per excellence, while his wife, Roli Bode George, was decorated with the medal of bravery, for her motherly role, according to the group. While appreciating the youth for the gesture done him, George charged those fanning embers of disunity for selfish gain to remember that power was transient, maintaining that every Nigerian irrespective of ethnic or religious differences, must work together for the good of the nation. The presentations were made in the presence of friends of “Altona Oodua of Yoruba land”, including Ebener Babatope, former minister of transport, Dr. Remi Akitoye, member, PDP board of trustee, former deputy Governor of Lagos State, Kofo Akerele Bucknor and a host of others. George for his part, said that he was approached by many to contest for the presidency, especially now that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was said to planning to contest. He remarked that he had not said yes or no because 2023 was still very far, stressing that he was really interested in contesting against Tinubu. The retired naval officer, however, lamented that his party PDP had failed to play its role as the main opposition party in the country since 2015. He said that he was not sure if he would be contesting in the platform of PDP and maintained that the PDP had not lived up to its potential. He stressed that the APC was not a serious party, describing it as “a party made up of opportunists”. He said that everything had been going bad since the party assumed office and position of leadership in 2015. George said that his primary assignment was to unite the country and ensure economic prosperity for the people, pointing out that the poverty level in the country had been too high. He insisted that the religious and tribal division in the country had actually brought the people to their knees, stressing that his campaign would be centred on unity and prosperity. “The trust of my campaign would be to unite the country, which is now deeply divided along ethnic and religious lines and that is counter productive. “Nigeria has target for itself in 2020. We would be in the top 20 economies in the world but the vision 2020 has since been abandoned,” he said. The former military administrator of Ondo State added that the race for 2023 should not be about the wealthiest candidate but those who sincerely has good plans for the nation. George