Abuja – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors and others key members of the party yesterday boycotted the party National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting. The party, which held its emergency executive meeting, expressed serious concern on the Supreme Court judgment, which sacked Emeka Ihedioha as governor of Imo State. The governors, which failed to attend the 87th NEC meeting are, Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Ben Ayade of Cross River State, Samuel Orton of Benue State, Darius Ishaku of Taraba State and Seyi Makinde of Oyo State. Other stakeholders, who were not present at the NEC meeting, are Bukola Saraki, Ike Ekweremadu, Rabiu Kwankwaso, David Mark, Yakubu Dogara, Tom Ikimi, Bode George, Ayo Fayose among others. The only governors that were present were that of Adamawa, Sokoto and Zamfara States. Emeka Ihedioha, the sacked governor of Imo State was also at the meeting. Speaking at the NEC meeting, the former Vice President and PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar charged Nigerians to reincarnate the struggle that brought about the democracy of today that “the APC governing party is threatening.” Atiku further said that “our party governed very well from 1999 up to 2015. As true democrat we conceded power to the opposition in the hope that it will further entrench democracy development and unity. But, alas Nigerians have been proved wrong by the governing APC.” Calling on Nigerians to resist threat to democracy, Atiku said, “it has become very necessary for us to mobilise Nigeria to resists the threat to our democracy, unity and development. Therefore, I will like to propose that a strong committee is setup to review the last elections and recommend to the party the needed reforms and address the challenges in the last election. “But what cannot wait is that we should not take what has been happening in our democratic process from the role of INEC, security agencies and the judiciary for granted. “If we take all these roles for granted, that will be the end of our hard earned struggle including our founding members who are today not alive. What can we say we have done to their struggles as they lay in their graves? Therefore, as long as we are alive, it is our responsibility to reincarnate the struggle they led to what brought about the democracy of today that the APC governing party is threatening.” The Board of Trustees Chairman of the party, Walid Jubrin on his part, noted that the nation is at war, adding, “I have not cried in a long while but after Imo election I have been crying. It is a very sad moment. Some people are ready to leave Nigeria.” Earlier, the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus lamented that the democratic gain of the nation has been squandered in All Progressives Congress’ (APC’s) 56 months reign. Insisting that PDP was robbed of Imo, Secondus said, “the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari’s hatchet job of undermining our democracy through the judiciary which began with the midnight breaking into the homes of Judges and Justices in 2016 and the unilateral removal of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Walter Onnoghen, in January 2019 on the eve of general election is beginning to materialise clearly. “Anxiety has engulfed our country because it’s now evident that all the huge sacrifice and contributions of our founding fathers to ensure the endurance of democracy in our land are being thrown to the dustbin. “All the efforts of our great party to deepen and grow our democracy for 16 years that resulted in our losing power and handing over in a seamless transition to the opposition are being blatantly squandered in APC’s 56 months reign.” In its communique after the 87th NEC meeting, PDP said that the nation has witnessed the destruction of democratic values, ethos, principles and the consistent breach of the 1999 constitution (as amended). Assuring Nigerians that the PDP will protect and defend democracy and its institutions in our country, the party rejected the “destructions of our democratic institution and values especially the independence of the legislature, the politicisation of the judiciary and the compromising of our security and electoral institutions.” The PDP noted with pains, the gross abuse of the rule of law, the muzzling of the civil society and advocates of free speech as well as ordinary Nigerians.