Lagos – A stakeholder in the Nigerian aviation industry, Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd) has challenged the Ministry of Aviation to come out with the actual contribution of the sector to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He lamented that till date, no one really knows the earning of the sector in Nigeria to the GDP, observing that several figures are being flouted around by various bodies. Mr. Osita Chidoka, former Minister of Aviation had in 2014 and 2015 , put the nation’s aviation industry contribution to GDP at 0.004 per cent, while Sen. Hadi Sirika, the present Minister of Aviation, upped it to 0.006 per cent in 2016 and 2017. Apart from these two, several other agencies and organisations regularly come up with figures as contribution of the sector to GDP, but none, could proof the figures being flouted. According to Ojikutu, the various figures displayed by various bodies did not tally with the International Air Transport Association’s (IATA) figure. He added: “…but because of the various exploitation of figures by the various operators, there are often the demands one financial intervention of funds from government, which over the years have shown no development nor growth. “We must know the actual earnings from the operators; the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) must take the lead by enforcing the necessary provision of the economic regulations of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (NCARs) Part 18 that requires all operators to submit monthly/yearly their financial balance sheets of their earnings and expenses to be able to determine their financial health regularly and the sustenance of their operations.” Ojikutu also pointed out that it would be a shame on Nigeria if it didn’t reestablish a new national carrier for the country in 2020. He pointed out that the country would lose its pride and leadership as a nation if it failed to set up one within the year. He explained that most countries with troubled national carrier in the 1990s, are re-awakening their national airlines, while Nigeria was still nowhere to be found. He pointed out that for the national carrier project to succeed, it was necessary for cNigeria to form alliances or partnerships with airlines from Australia, Canada, Europe, and United States and not with any of our competitors or a totally government-owned airline. “We must be ready to give initially nothing less than 50 per cent to the foreign technical partners and investors; government should be contented with about 5 per cent as the Hon Minister once said; credible Nigerians from the six zones should be given 15 per cent and the remaining 30 per cent should be sold at the Nigeria Stock Exchange market to the Nigerian public. “All these should not be difficult to achieve within 12 to 18 months if the will is there for us all,” he added.