Kano – The life insurance business insurers and providers of life annuity services will have cause to smile if the National Insurance Commission’s (NAICOM) target preparing grounds for the insurers to tap into the N10trn pension assets in 2020 yields fruit. Mr. Sunday Thomas, the Ag. Commissioner for Insurance at the ongoing seminar organised for journalists in the City of Kano, Kano State said that the commission was assiduously working towards ensuring that the industry benefitted from the initiative. The seminar is themed: ‘Strategic Focus of the Commission in the year 2020.’ Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to Thomas, NAICOM has now moved from the compliance to developmental regulations where the commission had shifted its focus to more of its market developmental responsibility. He noted that the shift from compliance to development was apt and timely, stressing that the commission was shifting its emphasis more to its market developmental responsibility. Thomas said, the agency in the year 2020 as it unfolds, was poised to make giant strides in all aspects of statutory responsibilities. “As the Year 2020 continues to unfold, giant strides will be made by the Commission in all aspects of its statutory responsibilities. This is the time to put the past behind us and look forward to a better and more vibrant sector. “The task of building an insurance sector of our dreams is a collective one and thus, all hands must be on deck to ensure our dreams become realities. “We recognise the impact of conducive work environment to effective and efficient regulatory system and this will always remain our priority.” Most importantly, Thomas said that the second phase of the Market Development and Restructuring Initiatives (MDRI) would soon be unveiled and would mark out clear targets and tasks for all stakeholders in the industry. MDRI was initiated in 2009 as a strategic vehicle for the implementation of the six of compulsory classes of Insurance, deepen up insurance penetration, open up the Market as well as make insurance popular among the citizens. On Recapitalisation, NAICOM boss said: “The initiative to recapitalise the insurance sector is no longer news.  The essence of the recapitalisation is a move to ensure that the industry becomes more robust in its technical competence and financial base, building confidence, trust and enhancing market value.”