Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Child of God, there is a message for you! This message is from above. Yes, God has something to say. This is a message that will transform your life. With this message, the impossible shall become possible! As you listen to this message your life will never be the same. In fact, your joy is about to be restored. In the first book of Samuel 3:1-20 the Lord God called the boy Samuel three times, “Samuel! Samuel!” At the third time the boy replied, “Speak, for your servant hears.” God addressed Samuel in a friendly way. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He revealed some of his future plans to him and how He will use Him mightily in the land of Israel. With this divine connection, “Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him… All Israel knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of the Lord.” Child of God, do you know that you are the Samuel of our generation? Do you know that God is about to speak to you and through you as He did in the days of Samuel? Do you even know that you are a prophet of the Most High God? You will soon discover that in almost all the books of the Bible God has a message of hope for you.  As you listen to these divine messages you will be spiritually nourished and you will be richly blessed, in Jesus name – Amen! 1.  God Will Bless Those Who Bless You: Genesis 12:1-3 The LORD said to Abram:  “I will make you a great nation; I will bless you And make your name great; And you shall be a blessing. 3 I will bless those who bless you, And I will curse him who curses you; And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.” Child of God, all those who are cursing you are in trouble. God will not just bless those who bless you; He will make you a channel of blessing. Through you, your nation and even your generation shall be blessed in Jesus name – Amen! 2. God Has Come To Deliver You: Exodus 3:4-8 God called Moses from the midst of the bush and said, “Moses, Moses!” And he said, “Here I am.”… He said, “I am the God of your father—the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. 7 And the LORD said: “I have surely seen the oppression of My people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. 8 So I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up from that land to a good and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey.” Child of God, your period of slavery is over! With this divine message you are no longer under bondage. I declare you free in Jesus name – Amen! 3. God Wants You To Be Holy: Leviticus 19:1-2 the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 “Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say to them: ‘You shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy.” Child of God, the spirit of uncleanness is no more for you. Every yoke of pollution and contamination is hereby broken in Jesus name! From today, you shall live a holy life. You will be holy as your heavenly Father is holy! 4. God Has Ordered The Priestly Family To Bless You: Number 6:22-27 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying: 23 “Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘This is the way you shall bless the children of Israel. Say to them: 24 “The LORD bless you and keep you; 25 The LORD make His face shine upon you, And be gracious to you; 26 The LORD lift up His countenance upon you, And give you peace.” ’ Child of God, you are no longer under a curse. Parental curses and ancestral curses are hereby cancelled. The yoke of inherited curses are broken in Jesus name – Amen! God will surely bless you. He will keep you safe and His face will continue to shine upon you. He will bless you with peace and He will remain gracious to you in Jesus name – Amen! 5. Your Enemies Are In Trouble! Deuteronomy 2:25 The Lord declares, “From today on I will make people everywhere afraid of you. Everyone will tremble with fear at the mention of your name.’ Child of God, from today, you have no business with the spirit of fear. Instead, your enemies will be afraid of you. They will tremble with fear each time they see you. You will be victorious in Jesus name – Amen! 6. You Are Unbeatable: Joshua 1:5-6 The Lord told Joshua, “Joshua, no one will be able to defeat you as long as you live. I will be with you as I was with Moses. I will always be with you; I will never abandon you. 6 Be determined and confident, for you will be the leader of these people as they occupy this land which I promised their ancestors.” Child of God, do you know that one with God is majority? As long as you are connected with God, victory is on your side. You shall possess your possession in Jesus name – Amen! 7. You Are Not Alone: Judges 6:12 The LORD’s angel appeared to Gideon and said, “The LORD is with you, brave and mighty man!” Child of God, you are not alone. Indeed, the Lord is with you. you are not a coward, with God on your side you are a brave and mighty one. God will use you to defeat your enemies and He will remain with you forever and ever – Amen! 8. Those Who Laugh At You Will Soon Laugh With You: Ruth 4:14 The women said to Naomi, “Praise the LORD! He has given you a grandson today to take care of you. May the boy become famous in Israel!” Child of God, no matter what you are passing through today, like in the case of Naomi, your story will end in praise. Those who laughed at you will surely laugh with you. You will celebrate and you will be celebrated in Jesus name – Amen! 9. Your Period Of Barrenness Is Over! 1 Samuel 1:26-27 Hannah said to the Priest Eli, “Excuse me, sir. Do you remember me? I am the woman you saw standing here, praying to the LORD. 27 I asked him for this child, and he gave me what I asked for.” Child of God, your level has changed! As you remain connected with the Most High God, He will surely give you what you ask for. Your period of barrenness and emptiness is over! You shall remain fruitful in Jesus name – Amen! 10. You Will Surely Sing A Song Of Victory: 2 Samuel 22 When the LORD saved David from Saul and his other enemies, David sang this song to the LORD: “The LORD is my protector; He is my strong fortress. 3 My God is my protection, and with him I am safe. He protects me like a shield; He defends me and keeps me safe. He is my savior;  He protects me and saves me from violence. 4 I call to the LORD,  and He saves me from my enemies. Praise the LORD!” Child of God, any moment from now, God will defeat all your enemies. You will be victorious! You shall join David to sing a song of victory. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!