Abuja  – The Nigerian government has secured a deal with the United States of America to repatriate an additional $321 million looted by the late Sani Abacha’s family while in office. At the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday in Abuja, it was resolved that the funds should be channeled into the completion of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Abuja-Kano Expressway as well as the 2nd Niger Bridge still under construction. Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, made the disclosure shortly after the maiden FEC meeting for 2020, which was chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Malami explained that council approved the asset sharing tripartite agreement between Nigeria, Island of Jersey and the United States of America for the purpose of repatriation of the looted assets. He recalled that during Buhari’s first term, his administration succeeded in enhancing the recovery of looted assets by over 1,300 percent. “It is in line with that spirit of aggressive recovery of looted assets that the Office of the Attorney General has been pursuing the recovery of looted assets. We have overtime been discussing with other jurisdictions including Island of Jersey and the United States, among others, for the purpose of the repatriation of looted assets connected to the Abacha family, Diezani Alison-Madueke, Kolawole Aluko, among others. “It is within this contest that we have now come to terms with this jurisdiction – Island of Jersey, United States of America and indeed Nigeria by way of negotiating for the repatriation of a sizable assets. “As it is, we have concluded on the understanding that the sum of $321 million will be repatriated in due course”. On timeline for the repatriation, he said the agreement will be signed next week and the government has indeed given commitment that the proceeds of the looted assets, after recovery, should be applied to Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Abuja-Kano Road and second Niger Bridge. Among other resolutions taken at the meeting was a travel advisory to Nigerians concerning the outbreak of coronavirus in China. According to the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, it has become imperative to state that all those intending to travel out of Nigeria to China should hold on for now until the virus is contained. Moreover, all flights and passengers coming from China to Nigeria must be quarantined for at least two weeks until their health status is ascertained before they can freely mix up with other citizens. “In view of the trending stories around the coronavirus, it has become very necessary to issue a travel advisory to Nigerians. The first is that all Nigerians and all from Nigeria, intending to travel to China should delay all their travel plans until further notice, except it is extremely essential for them to do that trip. “All persons arriving from China or any country that has a major outbreak is advised, if they have no symptoms at all, to self-isolate, meaning that they stay indoors in their homes for at least two weeks and if they develop any symptoms, like cough, catarrh, sneezing, breathing difficulties within this period should report to the nearest health facility. “We are also advising all airlines to report any case of a passenger falling sick on-board before the plane lands. That is a requirement in the agreement. Nigerian Port Health Services, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control are on alert at our airports and other points of entry. That is the advisory”.