The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the protest embarked upon by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as senseless and capable dragging the image of the country and the judiciary into public ridicule before the international community. In a highly worded statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu, the APC said it finds the action of the PDP disgraceful, senseless and worrisome as well as a calculated attempt to heat up the polity. The statement read “the All Progressives Congress (APC) finds the indecorous and contemptuous actions and remarks by the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) worrisome. The disgraceful and senseless protest embarked upon by the opposition party is being done with the sole purpose of dragging the apex Court of our land, and indeed our great country into odium and scorn before the international community. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We also view the irascible actions and irresponsible remarks by the PDP as a calculated attempt to overheat the polity. PDP has become a present threat to our peaceful coexistence. “Unlike PDP, we are not going to behave like spoilt brats and threaten the peace of the country over the surprising judgement of the Supreme Court on the Sokoto State seat. “As our records show, APC has lost several seats in the Senate, House of Representatives and State Houses of Assembly across the country. Many have offered real confusion as the decisions departed from our knowledge of our electoral laws. Yet, we have carried ourselves with candor and dignity even in defeat. “In any democracy, no one should be allowed to inflame tempers within the polity, set the nation alight with such damaging allegations thereby threatening its peaceful coexistence and retire to his own home in peace as if he has done nothing. “All those behind the statements issued by the PDP pouring invectives on our judiciary and leveling baseless allegations against the Executive arm of government should feel ashamed of themselves. “The question to ask the PDP is whether the same Executive arm it accuses today were not the same ones in government when APC lost over 100 elective positions to Court decisions? Why did the same Executives not intervene to stop it and could that have even happened if indeed there was any form of collusion with the judiciary. “We urge the relevant agencies to immediately take the necessary steps to bring to account anyone attempting at causing chaos and inciting violence in our cities while hiding under dubious political protest. We also urge our teeming members to remain calm but steadfast.” 