YENAGOA – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has approved the payment of the N30,000 new national minimum wage to workers in the state with effect from this month, January. He gave the approval on Friday during a meeting with the leadership of organised labour at the Government House, Yenagoa, according to a statement on Saturday by his Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei. Dickson approved payment of the new minimum wage about 11 days after his administration constituted a 12-member committee chaired by Biobelemoye Charles-Onyeama, the state Head of Service, for the implementation of the new salary level. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It was believed in several quarters that the setting up of the committee was to avert the threat by organised labour that it would not guaranteed industrial harmony in January 2020 if the December 31, 2019 deadline issued the government expired without any move to implement the  minimum wage. Dickson, according to the statement, directed the state’s financial team to use the template set by the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission in implementing the new salary level. The outgoing governor said that nothing was too much to be paid to workers in view of their contributions to national development, describing the state’s workforce as hard working. He, however, stressed the need for the public service to remain apolitical, disciplined and professional in the discharge of its duties. He explained that the meeting was convened to enable the state government and the labour unions to jointly work out the modalities for the payment of the new wage in such a way that Bayelsa would not lag behind in its implementation. Dickson also expressed appreciation to labour unions for their cooperation and understanding, especially during the economic recession, urging them to extend the kind gesture to the incoming government with a view to sustaining the prevailing industrial harmony in the state. In their separate reactions, John Ndiomu and Laye Julius, the state chairmen of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC), described the outcome of the meeting as satisfactory. The labour leaders, who commended Dickson for fulfilling his promise on the implementation of the new minimum wage, assured workers that the issue of arrears arising from the new pay would be addressed by the incoming government. According to them, the implementation of the new wage cuts across all workers in the public service, including primary school teachers and local government council workers in the state. Ndiomu added that the governor also promised to complete the construction of the Labour House as well as pay the December salaries of pensioners and workers in tertiary institutions. The state chairman of the Joint Public Service Negotiating Council, Dimie Olomu, among other labour leaders, lauded the governor for approving the payment of the new wage. Also, the HoS, Charles-Onyeama, assured the organised labour leaders that all modalities for the implementation of the minimum wage would soon be concluded to enable government to pay it from this January.