Africa’s foremost businessman and chairman of Globacom Limited, Dr Mike Adenuga Jr., has won the “Entrepreneur of the Decade” Award while Globacom clinched the “Brand of the Decade” Award  at the silver jubilee anniversary of ThisDay newspapers held in Lagos recently. The event was attended by government officials, captains of industries, political and entertainment heavyweights. Thisday said that Globacom emerged as Brand of the Decade in the “People’s Choice” category, while Dr. Adenuga clinched the Entrepreneur of the Decade award in the “Editor’s Choice” category. Prince Nduka Obaigbena, the publisher of Thisday, said Dr Adenuga was chosen for the award by the editors of the paper because of his vast contributions to the development of the country’s economy. He explained that Dr Adenuga had, through his investments in critical sectors such as telecommunications, oil and gas, real estate and banking, become “a major pillar of the Nigerian economy”.    Dr. Adenuga is the Chairman of Mike Adenuga Group which includes Globacom Limited, Conoil Plc, Conoil Producing, Continental Oil and Gas Ltd. On Globacom’s choice as Brand of the Decade, Prince Obaigbena said that the company was selected by the majority of respondents in a poll conducted by the paper. He noted that since the launch of the company in 2003, it had redefined the telecoms landscape through an array of innovative products and services. Globacom was recently honoured on the global stage, winning the Telecom Brand of the Year Award at the World Branding Forum in Kensington Palace, London. Mrs. Bella Disu, Globacom’s Executive Vice Chairman, who received the ThisDay award plaque from Hadiza Bala Usman, Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority, said she was delighted to collect the People’s Choice: Brand of the Decade award on behalf of Globacom.  She thanked ThisDay and everyone who voted. Mrs. Disu enthused “being affirmed so strongly by those we serve is indeed the highest honour.  I thank all our millions of subscribers for their continued support.” The plaque for Entrepreneur of the  Decade for Dr Adenuga was presented to Miss Folasade Michael-Adenuga, Executive Director of Globacom, who thanked the Editors of Thisday Newspapers for recognizing “the contributions of Dr. Adenuga to the growth of the economy”. She expressed appreciation to all for the honour done to him. Globacom restated that resourcefulness and commitment to innovation and service excellence were the factors that propelled the brand to the peak of Nigeria’s telecom industry. It thanked its over 50 million subscribers for their support for the brand.