Lagos – As part of its ongoing commitment to support its partners and promote collaboration among Nigerian players, OCP Africa, OCP Group’s subsidiary dedicated to the African continent, a world leader in the phosphate industry, organised three-day training for its partners on project management. Organised in partnership with Jacobs Engineering SA (JESA), a leading engineering group in Africa, the training brought together state government representatives from Kaduna and Sokoto states, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Solid Minerals Development Fund (SMDF) with other stakeholders in attendance. In his opening remarks, Caleb Usoh, the Country Manager of OCP Africa Fertilizers Nigeria Limited, said: “OCP Africa has accumulated knowledge and experience through the execution of many projects and we are willing to share this knowledge with our partners in Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The aim is to provide participants with all the elements required to improve and professionalize their projects’ management. Furthermore, we mobilized JESA’s experts who shared international standards and best practices when it comes to project management and demonstrated how effective it is to adopt those practices in an interactive and participative manner with our partners.” The participants were exposed to different areas of project management, including: Safety revolution in project management, Project quality, Team building, Project risk management, Project control, Procurement and contract, Construction integration and project close out amongst other critical aspects of project execution and management. According to JESA’s team lead, Anne Duval, “we designed this training to give the participants a holistic view and approach to the critical areas of project management in line with best practices. We believe that these trainings will go a long way in raising capacity and output on the long run”. For the record, JESA is the largest engineering group in Morocco and leader in the continent, specialized in Engineering, Projects Management, Consulting and urban planning. With operations in all engineering sectors JESA offers a full spectrum of services and capabilities in the fields of mining & industry, energy, water, master planning & building, infrastructure & transport and environment. In an interview, a participant in the training and director at Sokoto State’s Ministry of Lands, Mr. Aminu Mogaji, said both private and public sectors would experience significant improvement in terms of project delivery if the principles recommended at the programme are adopted. He commended OCP for the initiative, saying the country needs more initiatives of this nature. Participants were issued certificates at an elaborate award ceremony, organised to mark the end of the training. The project management training is the first of several training programmes OCP Africa plans to hold in Nigeria, as part of its support for its partners.  This forms part of OCP Africa’s approach to the development of the Nigeria agricultural landscape using value chain approach.