Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on some of the gains recorded by the Muhammadu Buhari administration in critical areas such as war against corruption, reducing cost of governance, border closure and other critical issues. Excerpts: Recently, there have been concerns in certain circles about the country’s growing debt, both domestic and external. How will you react to this? I believe it is important to cor­rect some misrepresentations so that Nigerians can be better informed. One, the public debt stock is actually a cumulative fig­ure of borrowings by successive governments over many years. It is therefore not appropriate to attribute the public debt stock to one administration. Two, Ni­geria’s total public debt stock in 2015 was $63.80 billion, compris­ing $10.31 billion of external debt and $53.49 billion domestic debt. By June 2019, the total debt stock was $83.883 billion, made up of $27.163 billion of external debt and $56.720 billion domestic debt. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It is therefore not correct to say that Nigeria’s external debt alone is $81.274 billion. Three, there is yet no cause for alarm. This is because Nigeria has a debt ceiling of 25% in the total public debt stock to Gross Domestic Product (Debt/GDP), which it has operated within. The ratio for Dec. 31 2018 and June 30 2019 were 19.09% and 18.99% re­spectively. Four, the debt service to rev­enue ratio has however been higher than desirable, hence the push by the government to diver­sify the economy and increase oil and non-oil revenues significant­ly. The government is also widen­ing the tax base to capture more tax-paying citizens. Five, in the face of massive in­frastructural decay, no responsi­ble government will sit by and do nothing. This administration’s borrowing, therefore, is aimed at revamping our infrastruc­ture, including roads, bridges, railways, waterways and power, to help unleash the potential of the nation’s economy. The loans for the educational sector will contribute to the development of our human capital while the loans for the agricultural sector will help the move to diversify the economy. In the monetary sector, capi­tal importation comprises mainly foreign direct investment, portfo­lio investment and other invest­ment flowing into the country. As at the third quarter of 2019, total capital importation had reached nearly 20 billion US dollars, which was 34% higher than the 15 billion US dollars recorded for the first three quarters of 2018. While the inflow of foreign di­rect investment declined over the period by 39% from 1 billion US dollars to 700 million US dollars, portfolio investment and other in­vestments both rose significantly by 39% and 42% respectively. Major sectors: Apart from banking and shares, some of the major sectors that witnessed high volume of capital inflows in 2019 were telecommunications, pro­duction and services. Major states: Nearly all of the total capital importation as at Q3 2019 flowed to Lagos and Abuja, as is typical. What is your assessment of the federal government’s anti-corruption war. Can you really say that govern­ment is winning the war? The Buhari administration’s fight against corruption is pro­gressing on all fronts, includ­ing institutional reforms, loot recovery and prosecution of al­leged corrupt persons. As you are aware, this is one of the cardinal programmes of the Administra­tion, with the others being the revamping of the economy and tackling insecurity. The administration took a major step forward in the fight against corruption when it launched the Financial Trans­parency Policy and Portal, also known as Open Government. The Transparency Policy mandates the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) to publish a Daily Treasury Statement, which will provide information about what comes into the national treasury and what goes out every day. Under the policy, the Accoun­tant General of the Federation and all Accounting Officers must publish Daily Payments Reports. With these reports, the Treasury will publish payments of at least N10m while all MDAS must pub­lish payments above N5m made out of all public funds in their care. The information to be pub­lished must include the Ministry, Department and Agency (MDA) responsible, the beneficiary, the purpose and amount of each pay­ment. Accounting Officers are re­sponsible for providing answers to any questions from the public relating to transactions complet­ed by entities under their charge. The AGF was also mandated to publish monthly Fiscal Accounts detailing the fiscal performance of the Federation, including receipts from all the collection agencies and payments out of the Federation Account. This must be done within 14 days after the end of the month. The AGF and all Accounting Offi­cers of MDAs must publish Quar­terly Financial Statements for the government as a whole and for individual MDAS respectively. President Muhammadu Bu­hari said the reason for imple­menting the policy is to cement government’s commitment to im­proving governance and supple­menting the recently-launched Whistle-blower Policy and equip­ping the general population with the tools they need to report fi­nancial wrongdoing. This policy is unprecedented and will go a  long way in enhancing trans­parency in governance and curtailing public sector corrup­tion. The portal can be accessed through:https:opentreasury.gov. ng What steps has this government taken to block leakages, reduce cost of governance and promote transparency in the management of resources? We have done quite a lot in this regard. The President this year approved additional cost-saving measures, particularly in the area of official travels. Under the new policy, all MDAs are required to submit their Yearly Travel Plans for statutory meet­ings and engagements to the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and/or the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation for express clearance within the first quarter of the fiscal year, before implementation. They are further required to make their presentation using the ex­isting template and also secure approvals on specific travels as contained in the plan, from the appropriate quarters. On the nature and Frequency of travels, all public-funded trav­els, both local and foreign, must be strictly for official purposes backed with documentary evi­dence. In this regard, all foreign travels must be for highly-essen­tial statutory engagements that are beneficial to the interest of the country. Except with the ex­press approval of Mr. President, Ministers, Permanent Secretar­ies, Chairmen of Extra-Ministe­rial Departments, Chief Execu­tive Officers and Directors are restricted to not more than two (2) foreign travels in a quarter. Also, when a Minister is at the head of an official delegation, the size of such delegation shall not exceed four (4) including the relevant Director, Schedule Officer and one (1) Aide of the Minister. Every other delegation below ministerial level shall be re­stricted to a maximum of three (3). For Class of Air Travels, the President has approved that Ministers, Permanent Secretar­ies, Special Advisers, Senior Spe­cial Assistants to the President, Chairmen of Extra-Ministerial Departments and Chief Execu­tive Officers of Parastatals who are entitled, to continue to fly Business Class, while other cat­egories of Public Officers are to travel on Economy Class. Also, travel days will no longer attract payment of Estacode Allowances as duration of official trips shall be limited to only the number of days of the event as contained in the supporting documents to qualify for public funding. Can you give us a breakdown of some high profile convictions that happened under this government? Between January and Octo­ber 2019 alone, that’s a period of 10 months, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) secured 890 convictions. This is the highest anywhere in the world. Recall that in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, the EFCC was only able to secure 103, 189, 190 and 202 convictions respec­tively. The high rate of convic­tions in 2019 is in addition to the billions of naira in looted funds that have been recovered by the EFCC. For its part, the ICPC has launched a novel project of tracking the huge resources al­located to constituency projects over the years. The Commission has started with the education and health sectors and, already, many contractors who abandoned their projects are returning to site. The Commission has also launched the WAHALA DEY app, which is a one-stop shop for daily information from the ICPC, and for Nigerians to report acts of corruption. This is not the first time Nige­ria is fighting the canker-worm of corruption, but it is the first time that the fight is being backed by a strong political will, with a President renowned for his honour, dignity and incor­ruptibility personally leading the fight. And that is making all the difference. I have also said that while the war against cor­ruption is still a war in progress, it is also fair to say that corrup­tion has now been driven under the table, and that the corrupt ones can no longer flaunt the proceeds of their corruption the way they used to do in the past. That is a major step forward. Af­ter all, every successful battle is a step towards winning a war. Another cardinal agenda of this administration is security. How is the administration combating the threats posed insurgents and other criminal elements? Our gallant men and women in uniform stepped up the fight against terrorism in 2019, de­spite the fact that they are not just fighting the rump of Boko Haram but also the Islamic State’s West African Province (ISWAP). Yes, they occasional at­tack soft targets from the fringe islands in Chad, where they have been confined by our troops, but they don’t hold any territory like they did before the advent of this Administration, when they hoisted their flag in their Bama Caliphate, collected taxes, as well as removed and installed Emirs. They no longer have such capabilities. The successful attacks they carried out in Abuja and other cities are now a thing of the past. The terrorists’ recent attempt to attack soft targets in Damaturu, the Yobe State Capital, and Biu in Borno State were repelled by the military, with the terrorists suffering heavy casualties. It is important that we, as cit­izens, do not say or do anything to demoralise the gallant troops who are fighting to keep us safe. It’s Christmas and New Year now and we are all with our families celebrating the holidays. But these gallant men and women are in the trenches to keep us safe. Let us remember them in our prayers and give them our support always, rather than sniping at them. Terrorism is not just a Nigerian problem. It’s a global problem and it has glob­al ramifications. The terrorists are as irrational as they are in­human. They do not subscribe to any religion, despite their preten­sions. That explains why they reportedly murdered 11 innocent men in Nigeria recently, in a das­tardly and cold-blooded manner, just to avenge the killing of ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi by US forces. The world must unite to fight this scourge of our time. Also, thanks to a multi-dimen­sional approach, the incessant farmers-herders clashes across the country, as well as banditry and kidnapping, have been re­duced to the barest minimum. What achievements have we recorded since the border closure began? Undoubtedly one of the bold­est decisions ever taken by any administration in Nigeria is the decision to embark on a border drill as part of measures to se­cure Nigeria’s land and mari­time borders. Many have called it border closure, but it is not. Recall, gentlemen, that the Nige­rian Customs Service (NCS) and Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), in collaboration with the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) as well as the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and other security and intelligence agencies, com­menced a joint border security exercise, code-named ‘EXER­CISE SWIFT RESPONSE’, in 4 geopolitical zones of the coun­try, namely; South South, South West, North Central and North West on the 20th August 2019. The exercise is being coordinated by the Office of the National Securi­ty Adviser (ONSA) and is aimed at better securing our borders in order to strengthen our economy and address other trans-border security concerns. Over time, Ni­geria has been confronted with numerous trans-border econom­ic and security challenges. These challenges range from banditry, kidnapping, smuggling, illegal migration and proliferation of light weapons, among others. Meanwhile, the preference for foreign goods, especially food items like rice, has continuously impoverished our farmers and adversely affected domestic gov­ernment policies supporting the agricultural sector to enhance food security. It is however dis­turbing that some neighbouring countries circumvent the ECOW­AS protocol on transit. Can you give further clarity on the ECOWAS protocol on transit? The ECOWAS protocol on transit demands that when a transit container berths at a seaport, the receiving country is mandated to escort same with­out tampering with the seal to the border of the destination country. Unfortunately, experi­ence has shown that our neigh­bours do not comply with this protocol. Rather, they break the seals of containers at their ports and trans-load goods destined for Nigeria.The effect of the border drill has been phenomenal and positive. I will list some of them. Today, Nigeria is closer to attain­ing self sufficiency in rice pro­duction than at any time in the country’s history, thanks to the border drill that has drastically reduced rice smuggling into the country and catalyzed rice pro­duction by our farmers across the country. We recently visited some of Nigeria’s 34 integrated rice mills as well as rice clusters in Kano. The rice mills are either operating at full capacity or have doubled their production. Before the drill, there were 12.2 million rice farmers in Nigeria, but now six million people, mostly youths, are venturing into rice production. Before the drill, farmers were cultivating rice twice a year, now that has increased to three times a year, and some rice farmers are now venturing beyond rice culti­vation to milling, packaging and marketing. Overall, the integrated mills currently produce 150,000 bags of rice daily and about 35 million bags per annum. The border drill has curbed the smuggling of rice and other prohibited items into the country, led to significant sei­zures with estimated monetary value of over 3,500,000 billion Naira, reduced local fuel con­sumption by 30% and reduced the importation of arms, munitions and drugs. Because of the drill, terrorists and other criminals are finding it hard to procure arms and ammunition while criminal elements no longer make their way into the country through the land borders. This has resulted in reduced cases of insecurity, whether its kidnap­ping, banditry, armed robbery or other violent crimes. Smug­gling of petroleum products out of Nigeria has been drastically curtailed, and has led to a 30% reduction in domestic fuel con­sumption. Before the drill, the Nigeria Customs Service was recording about N4.5 billion daily. Since the drill started, the figure has increased to between N5 billion and N8 billion daily. Also, There has been a drastic reduction in illegal migration while the exercise has provided a unique platform for the various participating agencies to operate jointly, thereby strengthening inter-agency collaboration and reducing animosity. It is also necessary to place on record that this is the first exercise in recent times, that military, para­military as well as intelligence and security agencies have come together to conduct such an exer­cise which is akin to a National Security exercise.