Manchester City winger Ian Poveda has arrived at Leeds United for a medical ahead of a proposed January move, according to a report. The winger has been linked with a move to Elland Road for a number of weeks, as the club have been struggling in front of goal. According to The Athletic, Poveda is in Leeds undergoing a medical – with the transfer expected to be announced soon. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The 19-year-old, is yet to make a first-team appearance at The Etihad – but has a decorated youth career behind him. The youngster played at Barcelona’s world-famous La Masia academy, before moving to Brentford’s academy and then the Etihad.ADVERTISING Despite a lack of first team football, his strong performances in Premier League 2 have seen the winger earn a place in the England under-20 squad. Leeds boss Marcelo Bielsa has openly said the club were looking for a winger and a striker in the January window, following the return of loanees Jack Clarke and Eddie Nketiah to their parent clubs. Poveda is out of contract in the summer, with City looking to profit of the youngster before he becomes a free agent. No transfer fee has been formally announced. The Whites have only scored once in their last four outings in the league. Bielsa believes the addition of Poveda will add some more creativity in wide areas, something the Whites have been missing of late. Reports suggested that the club were involved in a tug-of-war with Serie A outfit Torino for Poveda’s signature. The winger had been sought after for much of the transfer window, with Celtic also said to be interested. Leeds’ hunt for more offensive reinforcements took a major setback on Wednesday as the club’s record-breaking £20m bid for Southampton striker Che Adams was rejected. Leeds need to do their business soon, with next Friday’s deadline looming. United have seen their 10 point gap reduced to four points in the New Year – after a dismal run has seen them pick up five points from a possible 15 in the league. Marcelo Bielsa has also reportedly expressed an interest in the Watford forward Andre Gray but no formal approach has been made by Leeds. Leeds will be hopeful to get Poveda over the line, and in contention for Saturday’s Millwall game.