Iran’s supreme leader said the missile attack on American soldiers based in Iraq gave the United States a “slap on the face” in his first Friday sermon in Tehran since 2012. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei’s sermon, delivered in front of thousands at the capital’s Mosalla prayer congregation area, comes as Iran faces pressure at home and abroad over its accidental shooting down of a passenger plane. The Iranian government and military were accused of attempting a cover-up after waiting three days to admit that a Ukrainian passenger jet that crashed minutes after leaving Tehran’s international airport had been shot down with missiles. All 176 people on board were killed, including more than 80 Iranians, at least 57 Canadians, 11 Ukrainians and 10 from Sweden. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In his sermon on Friday, Mr Khamenei said the Ukranian plane crash was a “tragic, very sad incident”, but said Iran’s enemies were using the crash to weaken the grip of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) and to overshadow the US killing of top Iranian general Qassem Suleimani in a drone strike in Baghdad. Earlier this week, officials said the plane was mistaken for a missile amid a high alert in the hours after Iran launched missiles at US military positions in Iraq. The barrage was a retaliation to Suleimani’s assassination. “The fact that Iran has the power to give such a slap to a world power shows the hand of God,” Mr Khamenei, 80 said. He said the day Iran retaliated was a “day of God”. His comments were met by chants of “Death to America!”. The supreme leader described US President Donald Trump as a “clown” who only pretends to support the Iranian people and will “push a poisonous dagger” in Iran’s back. Mr Khamenei said millions of Iranians and thousands of Iraqis mourned Suliemani, who headed IRGC’s Quds Forces. The supreme leader, described the foreign arm of the IRGC as “fighters without borders” and told his domestic audience that they should be viewed as an “humanitarian organisation with human values”. Mr Khamenei said the IRGC “maintains Iranian security”. Suleimani’s killing on January 3 triggered an outpouring of grief and anger among Iranians. Mr Khamenei openly wept at the funeral and vowed “harsh retaliation” against the United States. But the admission on January 11 to downing the passenger plane quickly turned public anger against the Iranian regime, sparking three days of protests that were suppressed with tear gas and live ammunition. Internationally, Iran is under pressure to reveal full details of the incident and to compensate the victims’ families. Foreign ministers of the five countries whose citizens were killed met in London on Thursday and called for full and continuing co-operation from Iran and insisted it took the first step in offering compensation. At the same time, Iran faces the prospect of more international sanctions as its economy reels from increasingly stringent restrictions imposed by Mr Trump since pulling out of a nuclear deal between Iran and world powers in May 2018. After Suleimani was killed, Iran said it would no longer be bound by the limitations in the 2015 agreement, which imposed curbs on its nuclear programme in exchange for the lifting of international sanctions. European countries who have been trying to salvage the deal responded this week by invoking a dispute mechanism that is aimed at bringing Iran back into compliance and could result in a re-imposition of sanctions. In his sermon on Friday, Mr Khameni said France, Germany and Britain were serving American interests and cannot be trusted. “The iron hands of European negotiators are hidden under velvet gloves,” he told his audience. Mr Khamenei, who has held the country’s top office since 1989 and has the final say on all major decisions, was always sceptical of the nuclear agreement, arguing that the United States could not be trusted. But he allowed President Hassan Rouhani, a relative moderate, to conclude the agreement with then US president Barack Obama. Since Mr Trump’s withdrawal, he has said there can be no negotiations with the United States. Mr Khamenei last delivered a Friday sermon in February 2012, when he called Israel a “cancerous tumor” and vowed to support anyone confronting it. He also warned against any US strikes on Iran over its nuclear programme, saying the US would be damaged “10 times over”. Source: thenational.ae