LAGOS – The interaction between Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike and some traditional rulers in the state has become a subject of intense debate between political gladiators in the state, especially the Peoples Democratic Party (APC) and the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor, in a viral video on social media, was seen rebuking traditional rulers for not coming to the meeting with their staff of office. The governor said going forward, he wouldn’t tolerate any traditional rulers coming to see him without their staff of office. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He also berated the traditional rulers for clapping when he announced that a bill sanctioning people who parade themselves as traditional rulers without being recognised by the governor would be sent to the state assembly. Wike went further to pick on the traditional ruler of Omuma, King Onyekachi Amaonwu, whom he said was shaking his head while he was speaking. “Stop shaking your head! You!You! you are one of those who are causing problem. They gave you chieftaincy, you’re a young boy you don’t know what to do with it and then when I am speaking you’re shaking your head like this,” Wike said. “All fake! fake! Causing problem everywhere. He will just go and wear something bigger than him; you will think he is an elderly man. I remember when I was in school, he was running around.” While many Nigerians were not surprised at Wike’s outbursts having known him as a very forthright leader who has never been afraid to speak truth to power no matter whose ox is gored, other viewed his remarks as an insult and a denigration of the traditional institutions which the royal fathers represented. One of this is Dr Dakuku Peterside, the governorship candidate of the APC in the 2015 governorship election in Rivers state who alleged that the recent actions of Governor Nyesom Wike against traditional stools in Rivers State is demeaning, unbecoming, irresponsible and unbefitting for someone who occupies such a dignified office. Peterside stated that the utterances of Wike represent an all-time low in the history of the state, where a governor can “insult, disgrace, humiliate and depose traditional rulers at will.” “Wike’s penchant for embarrassing traditional rulers is becoming irresponsible and shameful. Never in our history have we had such a disrespectful governor. “Since 2015, Wike has sacked, deposed and withdrawn recognition from several royal fathers without any recourse to history, tradition and culture. “Not too long ago, Wike threatened to depose the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, King Theophilus Princewill, just as he has severally lambasted traditional rulers as if they were his servants. “Wike must be called to order. Well-meaning Rivers people must call him to order. He is turning himself into a feudal lord and an emperor at the same time. History is replete with his likes who ended up badly after turning themselves to tiny gods,” he stated. Peterside appealed to the traditional rulers to overlook the shame and disrespect meted on them, pointing out that as fathers, they should regard the governor’s utterances as that of a “child who lacks home training. “Wike should know that history is watching. Rivers people typically respect traditional rulers and traditional institutions. The governor must stop desecrating our traditional rulers and traditional institutions,” he summed up. Responding to Peterside’s claim, Paulinus Nsirim, Commissioner for Information and Communications urged Nigerians to ignore the video as it was doctored by the APC and Peterside to achieve some political ends” “As usual, we were amused by the lame effort by the 2015 Defunct Rivers State APC Governorship Candidate, Mr Dakuku Peterside to seek political relevance through a jaundiced interpretation of a mischievously edited video of the interaction between Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and esteemed Traditional Rulers of Rivers State. “Dakuku Peterside and his faction of the defunct All Progressives Congress (APC) procured a video of an engagement that lasted for over one hour and lifted different aspects of the response of Governor Wike to mislead members of the public. “Governor Wike was responding frankly to the address of the Chairman of the Rivers State Council of the Rulers wherein the Chairman requested that non-recognised Traditional Rulers should be checked by the Rivers State Governor. “The Governor directed the Attorney General of Rivers State to prepare an Executive Bill to resolve the issue raised by Chairman of the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers. He went ahead to urge the Traditional Rulers to always attend Government Functions with the Official Staff of Office handed over to them by the Rivers State Government, following the formal request by the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers. “At this point, there was General applause and Governor Wike reminded those clapping that he was simply doing what is right. “For Dakuku Peterside to attempt to use a frank discussion between the Rivers State Governor and the esteemed Traditional Rulers of Rivers State to seek relevance is a confirmation of the total rejection that he suffers alongside members of his defunct political party. “As a political toddler, who is being breastfed politically, Dakuku Peterside still relies on mischief to remain relevant. He goes about paying social media cheerleaders to cast aspersion on the Rivers State Governor on the premise of a manipulated video. “We understand Dakuku Peterside’s frustration following the painful defeat he suffered in 2015. But he cannot climb the political ladder on the premise of needless falsehood and mischief. “Rather than this dance of shame, he should redirect his energy on how to rebuild the disintegrated APC family in the State. “Dakuku Peterside can be likened to a man chasing rats while his house is on fire. There are so many factions in Rivers State. Instead of Dakuku Peterside to address this shameful issue, he is sniffing around paying for videos of the official engagements of Governor Wike. “Thank God they have accepted that Governor Wike is the best performing Governor in the country and are now concentrating their wasted energy on backyard gossip. “Dakuku and his co-travellers should know that Governor Wike has very high regards for the Traditional Institution and will never do anything to denigrate them”, Paulinus Nsirim said.