LAGOS  – Twenty days after the Federal Government said visa-on-arrival policy for African travellers coming into Nigeria will take effect, the policy is yet to see the light of the day. The policy was supposed to take effect from January 1, 2020. Rather, the continent’s citizens pay additional charges of $110 on each applicant, a situation, which analysts say rubbished the ease-of-doing-business policy of the government. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network President Muhammadu Buhari had on December 11, 2019 at the Aswan Forum for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa, held in Egypt announced that Nigeria would begin to issue visas-on-arrival to all African nationals. Though, the pronouncement received diverse views from tourism and security experts,security analysts, cautioned the government on implementing the new regime, citing existing insecurity in the country. The visa-on-arrival policy means that the continent’s citizens would not require visa to proceed on travels to Nigeria or have to fill application forms online before boarding planes to Nigeria, but their visas could be processed on arrival in the country. Investigation by DAILY INDEPENDENT indicated that African travellers at all the point of entries of Nigeria still go through the same processes as other travellers coming into the country and still pay the same charges as others. For instance, a traveller from Kenya still pays the newly introduced $90 biometrics fee, $25 as visa fee and additional $20 for service charge. But, before the pronouncement in Egypt, Kenyan travellers only paid $25 as visa fee without payment of $20 service charge. A source close to the service confided in our correspondent that travellers entering Nigeria face more harrowing experience, which negated the ease-of-doing-business policy of the Federal Government. Besides, the source told our correspondent that Ugandan passport holders pay just $2 (N700) as visa fee, but lamented that the passport holders are still compelled to pay $110 – $20 as service charge and $90 for biometric fee. The source said: “The ease-of-doing-business scheme is not working. Kenyan’s travellers before now, only paid $25 as visa fee without any other additions, but today, despite being Africans and the pronouncement of President Buhari, they are paying more. So, where is the ease-of-doing-business policy in all these? “The system has not changed. African travellers still apply online like any other foreign travellers from outside the continent. The Federal Government should stop the $20 service charge for all African countries. An additional $110 has been added to what Kenyans for instance pay Nigeria. “Look at Uganda for instance, how can you pay $2 as visa fee, but you now pay additional $20 as service charge. How can charges on service before more than the visa fee? That is corruption in the system. “There is much congestion at the airport now. After attending to just about seven travellers at the Lagos airport, the system will crash. The so-called visa-on-arrival policy opens the gateway for fraud in the system. The Federal Government and the National Assembly should beam their searchlight on events in immigration service.” Mr. Sunday James, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), NIS, in a telephone interview with our correspondent said that Buhari’s statement is being misconstrued in the media. He said: “The Federal Government has never said there is free visa regime for everybody. Free visa regime means they are not paying, which is not true. What President Muhammadu Buhari said was that there will be free movement for citizens of African countries. The essence of that is for you to have the capacity to move freely within the continent. The essence is for integration and unification, but it’s not free. “We have other Economic Community of West African States (ECOWA) members that come into member states because of visa abolishment. They have no means for any visa. Also, there are some few African countries also that hold diplomatic passports, official passports of their countries and others that don’t need visa to come into Nigeria, but they can be given visa on the point of entry.”  