BOLU-OLU ESHO; FELIX
IGBEKOYI AKURE / ASABA – There
is outbreak of Lassa fever in three local government areas in Ondo State with
no fewer than 15 casualties already recorded, while 28 patients infected by the
virus are on danger list. The local government areas are Akoko South West, Ose,
and Owo. Sources revealed on Monday that over 100 patients were currently on
admission at the Virology Department of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Owo,
having been infected by the virus, and were undergoing treatment. The patients, sources said, were on referral to FMC from
Ose, Oka-Akoko, and Owo towns. Due to the influx of patients on daily basis,
the Virology Department of FMC has been filled to capacity, forcing the
hospital to transfer the new referrals to the Virology Centre in Akure, the
state capital, for treatment. Among the casualties recorded was the wife of a
medical doctor working with FMC, Owo, who died at the weekend. State
Commissioner for Health, Dr. Wahab Adegbenro, has confirmed the outbreak. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said: “I am currently at the Governor’s Office and we are
having a meeting. That (the Lassa fever outbreak) is what we’re trying to
address now.” He promised addressing the public later in the day. “We are
working on the report available and the next line of action. That is why I am in the Governor’s Office. There will be
pronouncement after the meeting,” the commissioner said. Sources ascribed the
outbreak to poor awareness and sensitisation of the people. However, the
Commissioner for Health, who promised to address the public on the decision of
the government after his meeting with the governor, was not forthcoming as at
the time of filing this report. NYSC Corps Member In Delta Contacts Lassa Fever
Similarly, Lassa fever has infected a National Youth Service Corps member
serving in Asaba, Oshimili South Local Government Area of Delta State. The corps member, simply identified as Yinka, was said to
have been rushed to Irrua Specialist Hospital in Edo State after confirming the
virus at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) on Monday in Asaba. A source
explained that Yinka fell sick on Wednesday in their lodge and was taken to FMC
on Friday. “Yinka fell sick since Wednesday last week, but we were
buying drugs thinking it was just malaria and that he would be okay, but he
wasn’t getting better and the colour of his eyes was changing, his body also
started changing to white as if it was harmattan, but it was not. “Even his
urine was dark in colour. So, on Friday we decided to take him to FMC, Asaba.
“After series of tests, it was confirmed to be Lassa fever and he was taken to
Edo State,” the source explained. The Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps, Delta State,
Mrs. Olutayo Samuel, who confirmed the incident, said the infected corps member
had been transferred to a specialist hospital in Edo State.