LAGOS – The Chief Economist at the PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwC), Mr. Andrew Nev­in, has argued that Nigeria need to invest between $30 billion and $40 billion in infrastructure to up­scale the national infrastructure. Nevin contended that the bud­get for infrastructure, in Lagos
which is the commercial hub of West Africa, has never surpassed $2 billion. Nevin made the remarks during a UK-Africa Pre-Summit Media
briefing held at the Brit­ish Deputy High Commissioner’s Residence, Ikoyi,
Lagos, on Mon­day. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He stressed that the country’s problems are made worse by the
rapid growth of its population, which is expected to jump from its current
level of 196 million to 400 million by 2050. However, the African Devel­opment Bank (AfDB) and other agencies
estimate that ailing or inadequate infrastructure in the power sector knocks as
much as two percentage points off GDP growth. Africa50, an infrastructure investment platform backed by the
African Development Bank, AfDB, estimates overall infra­structure funding needs
in Afri­ca amount to $1.2 trillion for the period between 2017 and 2025, or
$150 billion a year. It
puts the funding gap at be­tween $30 billion and $40 billion a year. The
Chief Economist at the PricewaterhouseCoopers Inter­national Ltd., therefore
called on the Nigerian authorities to speed up processes that will en­able more
investments to grow the economy at a higher rate, to be able to lift 100
million people out of poverty as estimated by the Federal Government. Nevin
said that Nigeria was only growing at about two per cent and if the country
continues that way, there would be more peo­ple in poverty. “To
grow economically, we need investment. We need invest­ment, roughly double what
is on ground in the country today. “We
need summits like this to connect with people that want to invest in Nigeria,
and the UK and Nigeria have such long standing and close ties.’’ The UK Africa
investment summit is scheduled to take place on Jan. 20, in London, UK. There
will be representations from 21 African countries at the summit.