Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says he views Jurgen Klopp’s comments about Manchester United taking a defensive approach against Liverpool as a “compliment”. United claimed a 1-1 draw at Old Trafford against the Reds back in October. It is the only time Liverpool have dropped points so far this season in the league – and after the game, Klopp discussed the tactics on show from United. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The German said: “We stopped ourselves. But of course United defended really well and then had the speed with Daniel James and Marcus Rashford. “They chip the ball in behind and then the race is on. That’s not cool. We defended that OK, but we should have played much better football. That’s what we expect of ourselves. That’s no criticism or judgement of United, it’s just about ourselves. “It doesn’t frustrate me. I’m not the person who should be concerned about this style [from United]. “It’s just a fact that when we come here, they just defend. It’s OK, no criticism, it’s just a fact.” Speaking in his press conference today ahead of the Anfield showdown on Sunday, Solskjaer gave his own take on Klopp’s perspective. He said: “I don’t think it’s an accusation, I take it as a compliment we’ve defended so well. “When the opposition manager is frustrated that’s a good sign our boys have done well. “I think we’ve been closest to winning both games [1-1 draw this season and 0-0 draw last term] so I don’t know what the problem has been.” Liverpool are flying high at the top of the Premier League, in pole position to end their 30-year wait for a title triumph. And Solskjaer insists United will not have to endure such a spell without a league crown. He said: “That’s what we’re working hard to make sure doesn’t happen and let that be a lesson for us. “I believe in this club, we will get there.” Solskjaer was asked which side is currently the best in the Premier League and admitted it had to be Klopp’s men. The Norwegian said: “The proof is in the league table, Liverpool have been best team in the league. “But when City out play you, they’re two different teams, two good teams they’ve shown over the years. “Man City gives you a different challenge to what Liverpool does, two very different ways of playing football.” On the stern test of taking on the Reds at Anfield, he added: “We need a very, very good performance to go there and win but we beat City last month, had the PSG game. “We need to get to the level of those performances when you go away to the team that’s top of the league. “The last two performances at Old Trafford we have drawn twice and been close to winning both games, so we’ve got some games to look back at and that will give us loads of belief and on the game if we perform to our best we have a chance to win.” Solskjaer also confirmed Harry Maguire is the new United captain with Ashley Young set to leave for Inter Milan. And he indicated Marcus Rashford is unlikely to win his fitness battle to be ready for Sunday after suffering an injury against Wolves on Wednesday.