We’ve all been there. Buying our favorite tasty snacks to enjoy and when you come to tuck in, someone else in the household has already gorged on them all. The fury is unimaginable. Well, one woman got so annoyed by her husband’s food-stealing habits that she decided to do something quite drastic about it. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Tammy Johnson, got so sick of her husband tucking into her snacks, she hilariously decided to tape them all up and even set up a mousetrap to catch him out. The idea came to Tammy, 41 one evening when hubby Thomas had already headed up to bed. She went into the kitchen and wrapped up as much food as she could in electrical tape to stop him from snacking in-between meals. Genius. Apparently, it’s a bit of a running joke in their household that Thomas, 43, can’t go into the kitchen without emerging with food. So when her brother visited one week, spotting he had electrical tape, she set to work sealing off the contents of their cupboards and fridge – making sure she included all the best snacks like sausage rolls. The mum from Stockport even booby-trapped a cake, putting it on a spare mouse trap and lining chocolate leading up to it to attract his attention. On discovering the kitchen cupboards, Thomas thought Tammy had lost the plot. Luckily, his step-daughter Aimee Carr, 22, managed to snap a few pictures of his reaction and posted them online. Aimee found the whole thing hilarious, posting on Facebook: “My mum got drunk last night and woke up this morning and realized she’s taped the sausage rolls together and taped the cheese up so that my step-dad won’t eat them??? “She also set up a mouse trap with biscuits and sweets in it to try and trap him. What is this woman.” It gained a lot of attention too with over 100 likes, shares, and comments. Tammy said: “We sellotaped up all our food. Near enough everything that was in the fridge and cupboards. “We did what we could do with as much tape as we had. “It was only in the morning that we woke up and were like, ‘oh my god, what have we done? Everything in the house is taped up’.” Now, weeks later, she’s still finding things strapped up. And sadly, despite her best efforts, it’s not stopped Thomas stealing all the snacks. Thomas, who works as a builder, said: “It is funny. I understand why she did it because every time I go to the kitchen I’m always picking food out of the cupboards. “She thinks I’m too lazy to undo it but I’m not. “I thought she was off her head. I couldn’t believe she had done that. She spent an hour doing it, I reckon. “She’s just making the point that I eat her out of house and home, I think. “It didn’t stop me.” Tammy, who is a stay-at-home mum, said Thomas was confused about discovering all the newly off-limits food. She said: “He went to get food out and asked why everything was all sellotaped up. He was bringing everything in going ‘look, you’ve taped this, you’ve taped this, you’ve taped this’. “I told him I thought it might have stopped him but it obviously didn’t. “I’ll point out he’s got a biscuit in his mouth at that moment and he’ll go, ‘oh yeah, I have, haven’t I?’. So to stop him from doing it we sellotaped it all. “It didn’t work. He still ate the food. It just took him a bit longer to get into.” Damn it, we were hoping to steal that trick from you, Tammy. How will we stop our other half stealing our favorite food now? 