Lagos – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos State chapter, on Thursday said it has invited the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to beam its searchlight on the activities of the chairmen of the 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in the state. While alleging that monumental corruption is taking place in the 57 councils, the party said the local government bosses have failed to justify the monthly allocations they receive as well as the additional monies they generate through tax and levies imposed on Lagosians. Speaking with Daily Independent, Barr. Taofik Gani, the Publicity Secretary of the party, accused Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State and national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of allegedly entrenching corruption in the councils through additional creation of 37 LCDAs. “We have been clamouring for the probe of local council administrations in Lagos as far back as 2004 when we saw then that the only reason the then governor and national leader of the APC today, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu balkanised the local governments to create LCDAs was simply because he wanted to throw away all the account books. “The creation of the additional councils was not for the development of Lagos but just to cover up the account books because what eventually happened was a situation where a local government that has six staff and three subordinates was now balkanised into six local council areas with additional 36 staff and 100 lieutenants. “So, more than ever before, we are reiterating our call now that this is the time for a comprehensive probe of Lagos local administrations because they have failed beyond all expectations. They cannot justify the monthly allocations accrued to them. We are asking the EFCC to do the needful now and look into the accounts of these councils”. The party also challenged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to launch a probe of the councils, monitor how they spend their allocations so that the dividends of democracy can get to Lagosians at the grassroots. “If Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is sincere about entrenching good governance in the state, the only place he can impress Lagosians now to let the people enjoy the dividends of democracy is the local government level, which means that he must monitor the activities of the local government chairmen and know what they are using their allocations for. “If he is bold enough he should do it but he cannot do it because he himself is aware of the fraud, corruption and stealing that is going on in the local governments”, the party said. However, while dismissing PDP’s claim, the APC said it is not bothered as local government chairmen in the state are accountable and have performed creditably well to the delight of Lagosians. Abiodun Salami, the Deputy Publicity Secretary of the party, in a chat with our correspondent said Lagos PDP is a dead party that is only seeking political relevance. While challenging the PDP to back up its claims with proof, it said the party is not in any way disturbed by the calls for the EFCC to look into the activities of the 57 councils in the state. “They have the right to call for probe but what we know is that PDP has always been seeking relevance and looking for ways to get themselves into the hearts of Lagosians. “We are not in any way disturbed by their calls for a probe of the councils because for whatever we have been doing in Lagos, we know we are already in the hearts of Lagosians. “Let them bring the EFCC if they want to. What this party has been clamouring for especially at the national level is the fact that we want to strengthen institutions. For anything, we believe the PDP is a dead party that is only seeking relevance. “Our local governments here in Lagos have been doing wonderfully well, they are doing what the people want at the local level and we are proud of their performance. Lagosians appreciate them and reward their sterling performances with votes during elections. That is why the PDP has never been a threat to us here. “Also, let PDP supply proof that all is not well at the councils. It is not just enough to write petitions, you must have your proof to back up your claims. “We believe the local government chairmen are accountable because as a party we have put machinery in place to monitor their activities and spending”, he said.