Hon Samuel Oghenevwogagan Mariere was a member of the Delta State House of Assembly from 2011 to 2019. He was the PDP Candidate for House of Representatives for the Udu/Ughelli Federal Constituency in the 2019 general elections. He spoke to Justice Iyasere after his thanksgiving last Sunday at St Paul’s Anglican Church, Evwreni on a number of issues. Excerpts: What were your reasons for organising this elaborate thanksgiving? In the first place I am a Christian. And my Bible made me to understand that in all things we must give thanks to God. And I sincerely believe in the power of thanksgiving. In fact we have too many reasons to thank God. The thanksgiving today is basically to thank God for the two tenures we spent in the House of Assembly from 2011 to 2019. We ran many elections and we won all through. We represented our people very well. Without trying to praise myself, there are evidences to prove that every community in my constituency was touched. In the House, we did well too. Our legacies are still there. For me, my wife and my children, God had been faithful and has given us good health. In the last election, it was very tasking. We ran a good election and luckily despite the challenges and provocations, nobody died because of the election. We won the election, but we were not declared winner. Isn’t that enough reason to give thanks to God? He knows what he is doing. I am glad we ran the election and did very well. When we won in 2011, we went to Church and gave thanks, same thing in 2015. That things went this way is enough to thank God. We have to thank God and appreciate the people. You know we will still come back to them some day. And we know we had content, we know what we wanted to give to the people. So we are not going to relent. What we experience now is a temporary setback but we must thank God for giving us the resources to run the election. For protecting all my followers, I am thankful. In fact, my constituency ought to be the most violent in the election but we experienced peace apart from a pocket of issues here and there, we generally ran a peaceful campaign and election. And in fact, we won the elections but were not declared winner. Only God knows why things went that way and so we have so many reasons to thank God, which is Biblical because the Bible says, in everything, give thanks. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Deltans across board believe you ran one of the best campaigns in the last elections yet the outcome did not reflect the reality. What actually went wrong? Well, like I said during the Church service earlier, in all elections, every candidate must have his own supporters. There is no candidate that cannot go without at least a vote in an election. In the very rare cases, the candidate’s wife and children will support him. There is no way everybody can support you in an election. We have had series of election where we supported people against some other candidates. It is a matter of choice. Of course, we had circumstances that were not very good even from our own party. We had people that did anti-party activities but it is also one of the intrigues of elections. It happens everywhere. But we have put all that behind us. As a party, we must move on, we must move beyond this election and build the party together. And my advice to everybody both the ones on our side and those on the other side of the divide is that let us put the past behind us. What has happened has happened. We have left that behind us. Let bygone be bygone. We will need to come together. Our Federal Constituency needs to come together because this is the heartland of Urhobo. If Urhobo must succeed in 2023, then Ughelli North, Ughelli South and Udu must come together because bulk of the votes from Urhobo is from here. We must come together as one. So my message to the people is that the elections are over. My brother, Hon. Solomon Awhinawhin, I have stretched hands of fellowship to him. We are going to work together whether you like it or not. We are going to work together for the betterment of our people. 2023 is around the corner, what is your advice to the political class particularly the Urhobo nation ahead of the coming governorship polls? The truth of the matter is that politics is very dynamic. Politics too is not a one-man show. One needs to play his or her cards very well. The Urhobo nation has very qualified persons for the position of Governor by 2023. Also the unwritten rotational convention that we have shows that the next governor should come from Delta Central, but that should not be seen as automatic, that Urhobo should go to sleep. No way. Governorship position is not dashed as a gift to anybody. There is none of the governors who have been in office without working for it. Chief James Ibori worked for it. Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan worked for it. Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa also worked for it. And the next Governor must also work for it. The next governor must come out and convince everybody that he will be governor for all. He must convince those in Delta South and North that he is a good material for the job. What I am saying in essence is that we must build bridges. The next governor must work across board and convince all about his person. It is not possible for the Urhobo nation, on her own, to produce the next governor. We need the other ethnic groups. We must work hard. If we are really serious, we must be united. We must put ourselves together so that we can get it. That is all I want to say for now. Once we are not united, once we fail to work hard enough, whatever we see in 2023, we manage. But our prayer is that the Urhobo nation should come together and get it right. We must come together, be united and move as one family into the battle. The fact is we worked hard as a people for Okowa in 2019. Whatever result we got in the last election was a result of our cheer determination to ensure Okowa wins on the understanding that by 2023, Urhobo could produce the next governor. Urhobo stood united behind Okowa and delivered. Having fought so hard to deliver, I think Delta Central should be considered for the position in 2023. Let us look at the Security Situation in Nigeria vis a vis the Amotekun saga in the South-West and the UPU position for the south-south to gear up for a security architecture for the Zone. What is your take? The truth of the matter is that, on the issue of insecurity, we are at a crossroad as far as Nigeria is concerned. Those of us who are students of history will know that we are in an evolving society. If we don’t evolve, we collapse. The current situation shows that there is an evolution taking place in Nigeria. That is why during our campaigns, we maintained that a lot will happen and that restructuring will commence and that there is no way Nigeria can run away from restructuring. If unfortunately, we don’t have good representatives at that point, we may not get the best deal from the evolving society. Whether we like it or not, the Urhobo nation needs to start working now. We must put on our thinking cap and project our first eleven. Unfortunately, we are still much divided, that was why I talked of unity earlier. We need to come together to be able to present our case in the restructuring that will inevitably come up. 