Dr. Qasim Akinreti, chairman, Lagos Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) has reiterated the need for practising journalists to stick to the ethics of the profession in the discharge of their duties, whether in the print or in the broadcast. Akinreti, a senior broadcaster at the Voice of  Nigeria (VON), spoke as one of the resource persons at the just-concluded two-day workshop organised for practising journalists in the South West by the Nigerian Press Council (NPC). Doing justice to his paper on the theme, ‘Ethical Journalism: An Indispensable Asset for Media Integrity’, Akinreti tutored his colleagues that there were hundreds of ethical codes of conduct, charters and statements made by the media and other professional groups. He outlined five most striking of the core principles as Truth and Accuracy, Independence, Fairness and Impartiality, Humanity and Accountability. Of the five, Akinreti maintained that accountability revolved around professionalism and responsible journalism, which, he said was the ability of journalists to hold themselves accountable. All these, he stressed, formed the ingredients that measure the level of integrity possessed by a medium. The need to uphold these ethical codes of journalism to boost the integrity of the Nigerian media, formed the basis of discussions at a two-day workshop recently organised in Akure, Ondo State. The workshop, which drew resource persons from the academia and  seasoned media practitioners, was attended by  at least 60 journalists drawn from Ekiti, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun and Osun states. Akinreti posited that all well-trained journalists should endeavour to uphold the highest level of professional ethics in the discharge of their duties. “A media professional must have attained the highest professional education and training for his practice. A profession, therefore, is the vocation or occupation that requires advanced education and training as well as intellectual skills. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The appropriateness of this definition necessitated the establishment of the Times Journalism Institute and the Nigerian Institute of Journalism in Lagos, “Journalists must prepare for high media integrity through functional, clearly defined educational standards, licensing and enforcement of performance of standards. “Competence, continuous training, relevant educational body of knowledge, standards of evolution and improvement programmes are essential in this direction,” Akinreti tutored. He added that it behooves on professional journalists to put public interest on the front-burner of their news judgement at all times.