ABUJA – The Nigerian Airforce has taken delivery of two gunship helicopters procured from the United States government to boost its fleet of military aircrafts. Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar made the disclosure in Abuja on Friday, shortly after a security meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. He said substantial number of the military equipment would arrive the country by February, 2020, even as he revealed that government was never averse to community policing in the country as such it was ready to fund it. Recall that the United States Department of Defence had in the year 2018 awarded the contract for the manufacturing of 12 A-29 Super Tucano combat aircraft for the Nigerian Air Force. According to Abubakar, the President and a personal assessment of the military showed that the armed forces were going about tackling insecurity in the country quite well, especially with regards to banditry and kidnapping in the north. “The whole essence of the meeting is to critically evaluate what the armed forces of Nigeria as well as what other security and intelligence agencies are doing with regard to ensuring that the territorial integrity of Nigeria is not undermined by any individual or group of individuals. “We also looked at the emerging situations in some of our areas particularly acts of banditry in some of the North Western states and other parts of the country and we have critically looked at everything and we are satisfied with the progress we are making. “We are satisfied with the support the Federal Government is giving the armed forces and other security agencies in terms of procurement of platforms, substantial number of these equipment are expected by the end of February. “Some of the equipment we are acquiring have started arriving for the Nigerian Air Force, two helicopter gunships have arrived on the 15th of January and we are now in the process of putting them together which will add to whatever we have. “We are equally expecting other equipment, that are meant for the armed forces of Nigeria which we are hoping to get by the end of February. I am sure you are also familiar with the equipment acquisition by the Nigerian Police Force. I am sure you are also aware of the policy on Community Policing that was approved by Mr. President and it is going to be funded. The whole idea is to ensure that Nigeria is secured and Nigerians can go about pursuing their legitimate aspirations without any hindrance,” he told State House correspondents during a briefing session.”