The CLEEN Foundation, a Non –Government Organisation, has concluded arrangements with the Ikeja Branch of the Nigeria Bar Association to provide a Legal Resource Centre which shall be situated at the Ikeja Bar Centre. Samuel Akpologun, Partner/Data Collector for CLEEN Foundation disclosed this Tuesday to DAILY INDEPENDENT in a press statement saying that the resource centre which shall be provided by CLEEN Foundation with support from the Mac Arthur Foundation shall provide free access to a digital library of Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) in Lagos State ACJA and judgements on corruption and financial crime cases. He said the launching of the Legal Resource Centre would take place on Thursday, February 6, 2020. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Akpologun disclosed that the efforts were in its further bid to equip the citizens and stakeholders with the knowledge of the provisions of the ACJA and to encourage transparency in the conduct of Corruption and Financial Crimes Cases. The Foundation said it has observed that the spirit and intent of the ACJL was at the verge of being defeated as some of its innovative provisions were yet to be explored. The foundation which has put in place a working group to explore strategies for collaborating with partners and stakeholders towards the attainment of the objectives of the ACJL, deplored the slow pace in the implementation of the objective of the project by different stake holders. A communiqué issued at the end of the Working Group’s 4th Bi-Monthly held at the Leadspace Conference Room, Ojodu Berger, Lagos in Lagos observed once again that the spirit and intent of the ACJL is at the verge of being defeated as some of its innovative provisions are yet to be explored. The group identified the main hindrances to the implementation of the ACJA which include inadequate information on the provision of the ACJA/ ACJL by stakeholders and end-users, lack of strong structure/system that encourages, ensures and/or compels compliance of relevant stakeholders and the dearth of adequate facilities and infrastructure. It further noted that despite its observation and subsequent recommendations, not much has been achieved with respect to the implementation of the law. Akpologun said, “As part of the activities in fulfilling its mandate, the Working Group has scheduled a meeting with the Lagos State Comptroller of the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS) with a view of addressing the hurdles faced by the NCS in its bid to comply with the provisions of the ACJL/ACJA. “The group hopes to proffer solutions to those challenges as well as collaborate, interface with the NCS in finding the best solutions to the challenges. “We have also resolved to provide the end-users of the law (the citizens) with simplified and summarize version of the unique provision of the ACJA. This is aimed at educating the citizens and equipping them with knowledge of the provision of the ACJL so that they can be equipped to demand for adherence to its provisions and establishment of working mechanisms/system for the implementation of the provisions of the law,” he revealed. “Lastly, the Working Group commends the move of the Lagos State Government in inaugurating an advisory committee on Police Prosecutions in Magistrate Courts to review Laws enabling Police prosecutorial power. “The working group has resolved to understudy Kano State which has successfully abolished lay prosecution. This would enable the working group come up with a well-informed opinion which it will share with the committee in order to assist it in its mandate of helping the government arrive at a well-informed position on the issue of lay prosecution,” Akpologun explained.