ADO-EKITI – Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti State governor, has urged the people of Ekiti to shun all things capable of caus­ing division or upset the existing peace currently being enjoyed in the state. Fayemi also restated the resolve of his administra­tion to work in a manner that would ensure marked difference in the lives of the people of Ekiti State. Speaking at the 2020 Inter-Religious Thanks­giving Service held at the Government House, Ado Ekiti, the governor said his government was poised to implement plans aimed at ensuring rapid all-round development of the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Fayemi who stressed the need for proper planning, also said government’s resources were not limit­less hence the decision of his administration to put in place adequate plans within available resources to enable the state witness unfettered development in 2020 which he described as the year of the deliver­ables. He expressed optimism that the New Year would witness the actualisation of visions and miracles for the state. “Ten years ago we were talking about Vision 2020, now the year 2020 itself is here. Have we achieved all that we planned for, have we achieved all that we prayed for, have we achieved all that we want­ed when we started Vision 2010? Of course, our God is a God of planning; he is not an accidental God and that is why we also must plan and put in prayers for the work that we want to do be­cause what God says is that we should work and pray.” “God did not just say pray and pray. I know that we are ready, we are deter­mined to work in a manner that would make tangible difference in the lives of all our people so that we would have cause to celebrate his blessings in our midst and to demonstrate that we are indeed his children who have seen favour in the eyes of God,” he said. While praying to God to make the year peaceful and prosperous, the governor urged Ekiti people to shun any misguided utterances that can cause disaffection and division; adding, “If we have prosperity with­out peace, all would be naught.”