Liverpool could earn as much as £100million per season from their new kit deal with Nike, according to a sports marketing expert. The Reds confirmed earlier this week that they have signed a ‘multi-year’ agreement with the American sportswear giant that will begin on June 1. At £30m per year, the base value of the deal is significantly less than the £45m annual windfall the club earn from their current kit manufacturer New Balance. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network However, Nike’s offer of 20 per cent royalties on sales of merchandise and superior global reach have prompted early suggestions that Liverpool could now be in line to pocket £80m each year, perhaps more. Sports marketing expert Alan Seymour believes those estimates may well be on the conservative side, and credited owners Fenway Sports Group for securing this lucrative deal for the club. Transfer Talk LIVE! Stay on top of the latest news, rumours and gossip from the January window He told the Evening Standard: “We’re led to believe that the commission is going to be up to about 20 per cent so, in terms of actual value, when you equate and add in the way it’s been structured… when you start to add all these things together then we’re talking, I would suggest, in excess of £80m and upwards to the £100m value. “You cannot understate just the sheer opportunity that will come from being associated with this brand and I think all of those things will add attractiveness. “The deal that Liverpool have done with Nike is a brilliant starting point, it will evolve from there and there will be lots of things that happen alongside it. “Yes, there’s a base figure just to have your name alongside it, but all of the partners, all of the players in this – and there are a lot of them – that’s the [crucial part]. It’s very, very well thought out, like everything Liverpool do. “So it will be all about the associations with other celebrities, the pull of Nike as a brand, and all the other iconic people, then it’s about the merchandising, the sales potential. “Everything that FSG have ever done at Liverpool, their whole concept of doing things is [about] value. “It’s a partnership made for the very, very, very best.” The identity of Liverpool’s new kit partner has only served to throw fuel on the largely fan-inspired speculation that a move for PSG star, and Nike athlete, Kylian Mbappe could be in the offing. So, does Seymour believe that the Reds might splash out on such a transfer any time soon? “I don’t think Liverpool need to and I don’t think it’s in their sphere of thinking at the moment,” he added. “If it happens that the trends going forward dictate that that will be a key issue, then they’re in the best place possible to do it, but I don’t see Liverpool looking at that immediately. “Nike have done it quite well and effectively before, obviously, but I don’t think it’s for Liverpool Football Club at the moment.” Shortly after their 2010 takeover, FSG were forced to search for a new kit manufacturer when Adidas rejected the chance to renew their deal over a perceived lack of ‘value for money’. However, the Jurgen Klopp-lead on-pitch revolution that has taken place since has not just made Liverpool a more attractive proposition for the world’s best players, but also the biggest brands. Seymour explained: “It’s not just the perception but the actuality of your profile determines who you can buy from and who will come alongside you – I think those things are intrinsically linked. “Liverpool weren’t right up in the major league in terms of who would come to them or where they could do their shopping. “It says everything that [now], as Jurgen will tell you, every single world-class player in the world wants to come to Liverpool. “And the same is definitely true for all the partnerships.”