Great synergies are not very common, but no matter how small or large the entities are that come together, synergies are the precursors to outstanding success. On Wednesday, January 15, when Iloshe Properties and Investment Limited unveiled her new brand ambassador, Rachael Oniga and media executive, Taiye Akinpelu, it was evidence of a new synergy set to take on the real estate industry. Speaking at the unveiling, Chief Rachael Oniga, a seasoned actress and celebrity, explained that she has always been a fan of growth. ” I started from somewhere, just the same as Iloshe Properties. I always like to be a part of someone’s growth. There’s another real estate company that I branded and within a year that I branded them they were there and they are still there. So I know that by the special grace of God, Iloshe Properties and Investment Limited will measure far above where they are today,” she said. Also at the signing and unveiling of the ambassador and media executive was the MD, Iloshe Properties, Gbenga Mike Fabiyi, who said, “after a vigorous search for a celebrity with integrity and substance, Chief Mrs Rachael Oniga continually came up across all channels. Interestingly, her values are in tandem with what the Iloshe brand represents.” He further explained that “one of the key things that set Iloshe apart is that we do not renege on promises. We have estates in Lagos, Abuja and Ogun State all in different locations around the states, and one of the things we do is maintain integrity and ensure that we don’t renege on contracts.” Buttressing the point, Oniga explained that “I found out that Gbenga Mike Fabiyi is someone trustworthy because I don’t work with anybody that I cannot vouch for. I make bold to say it that the only way I can attest my signature and brand any entity, no matter the amount of money offered to me is that you are credible and sincere. If you are not, I will not align with you, not for any amount of money. I thank God for who I am today, and I would not want any stain or thing that would bring the glory of God in the Rachel Oniga brand down.” Taiye Akinpelu aka Taikins is a versatile broadcaster with a keen interest in the real estate industry. As the new media also stated at the event that, “Iloshe Properties is the latest real estate company to look out for. Even though they are a baby in the real estate industry, with only two years in the property market they are already playing shoulder to shoulder with top real estate companies in the country. A lot is in the works, as the new Media Executive, I can promise you that.” For Remi Shitta-Bey, who has been the organisation’s brand ambassador for a year, the company is taking great strides. “It has been great working with Iloshe in the last one year, and I quite appreciate their efforts. I welcome my colleagues in the industry to the great Iloshe, and I pray that in the next one year, Aunty Rachel would laugh.”