Chief Adesunbo Onitiri, the Lagos-based socio-political activist, has cautioned the Federal government against its plan to secure a foreign loan of $29bn already presented before the National Assembly for approval. He also lampooned the National Assembly for earmarking a whooping N37bn for the renovation of its complex when millions of Nigerians were dying of hunger and deprivation. In a statement in Lagos yesterday, Onitiri said that voting such a humongous amount of money for renovation by the legislators showed how cruel and unsympathetic they might be. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He suggested that the Federal government should look for other alternatives such as Public Private Participation (PPP) to raise money, cutting down the huge salaries of the legislators, ministers, government agencies, reduce wastes and the high cost of governance. He paid glowing tribute to Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) for its activities in defending and protecting Nigerians against the tyranny and dictatorial tendencies of this present administration. “This is the time to scrutinise all actions of politicians and be very proactive. Let us all make politics less attractive and subject our politicians to transparency and accountability. Politics is about service and not enrichment of oneself. Looting has no space in politics. “We wish to urge you to please do more this new year 2020. We also call on all other democratic associations like Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Civil Liberties Organisation, Nigeria Labour Congress, Nigeria Union of Journalists and other well-meaning Nigerians to wake up and stand with Nigerian oppressed masses and defend our constitution and fledgling democracy.” “SERAP has done well by taking our compromised National Assembly to court over the bogus N37bn renovation of the National Assembly. They should also file action on humongous padding of our National budget.” “This is the time to raise our voices on the many breaches of our constitution and disobedience to the rule of law by PMB and this administration. Every Democrat must be at alert to prevent total destruction of our democracy and constitution,” he said. The political activist alleged that the executive arm of government had captured the legislature completely, describing it as a “rubber stamp” of the executive. He maintained that any bill presented to the National Assembly was as good as passed; stressing that if the third term extension bill was sent to the senate, it would sail through.