LAGOS – As preparations for the Edo State governorship election hot up, political parties in the state are doing everything to ensure that they produce the best candidate in order to take over the state from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) hopes to take advantage of the ongoing crisis in the APC, a crisis which has pitched the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, against his godfather and predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s National Chairman. But, political watchers and stakeholders in the state are skeptical about the PDP taking advantage of the crisis in the APC to win the governorship election. The party has not zoned the ticket yet. But, it is not unlikely that it may be zoned to Edo South because of its huge voting population and to give the APC a tough fight. But, Edo Central PDP leaders are not giving up in their quest to see that the candidate comes from the zone. In 2016, the PDP had picked Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who hails from Edo South, and the election was fiercely contested. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Even though the PDP has initiated the search for a strong and dependable candidate that would confront whoever emerges the APC candidate, political observers believe that those who have already indicated interest to fly the party’s flag are not strong enough to withstand either Obaseki or Ize-Iyamu, one of whom is likely to clinch the APC ticket. Ize-Iyamu, who dumped the PDP last year to join the APC, would have been the most viable candidate to challenge the ruling party, being the leading aspirant in Edo PDP until things fell apart between him and the state’s party chairman, Dan Orbih. Ize-Iyamu before abandoning the PDP, was believed to be a pillar of the party. He was the party’s candidate four years ago. However, some of the aspirants that have signified interest in flying the PDP’s flag include Gideon Ikhine, an engineer; Kenneth Imasuagbon, a legal practitioner, who hails from Ewohimi community. He is also a former PDP governorship aspirant; Ogbeide Ifaluyi-Isibor, a former member of the House of Representatives and Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, an entrepreneur and also a House of Representative  member. Sources within the party told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that there are already internal protest as regards the zoning arrangement of party positions and eventually the governorship candidate. The sources also revealed that it had been agreed that all the positions, particularly the state chairmanship, should be thrown open, while the ticket of the party for the governorship election should also enjoy the generosity status the chairmanship position has got. The PDP held a sensitisation tour of local government areas last year, where Orbih told the party faithful that a young man would be picked as the party’s candidate. In his address to members of the party in Estako Central, the chairman, said: “Our young party members have brilliant ideas to pilot the affairs of the state. Our governorship aspirants are young crop of people. I can tell you that in Edo 2020 election, PDP will produce a young governorship candidate.” There have been allegations that Orbih is backing Ogbeide-Ihama to clinch the ticket and leaders of the party in Edo Central are said to be rallying round themselves to thwart Orbih’s plot and are already agitating that the PDP zones the governorship ticket to them. It was gathered that the Edo Central leaders recently met at Uromi, where they demanded for the ticket in the forthcoming primary of the party. According to some of those present at the meeting, the agenda of the Esan people in Edo State is to produce the next governor of PDP for the state because the post has eluded them for the over 20 years. Hilary Ekhoye, one of the leaders of Esan, who spoke with newsmen after the meeting, said: “What we resolved in that meeting is that Esan must produce the next governor of this state. That is our consensus decision; that is the position of Esan; we are not going for any other position. What we are asking now is that other senatorial districts should join us in our demand because Esan is the home of PDP in Edo State. We may not arrive there easily but we are going to continue to discuss with people in Edo North and Edo South to give us this opportunity because this is what we want. Yes there may be few people who may not agree with us because of their selfish ambition, but that is our general agreement.” A leader of PDP in Esan South East, Ernest Oseghale, in an interview last year, demanded that Edo Central should be supported to produce Imasuangbon as the next governor, explaining that the aspirant has contributed to the growth of the PDP and has the capacity to lead the party to victory. Another source, who spoke with SUNDAY INDEPENDENY on the basis of anonymity said, “If a Benin man is a governor, the Esan man should be happy because they are all one and so if an Esan man is the governor, it is the same as well. Look at when Esan man was the governor, the legacies were remarkable and visible even in Edo South. “It is also important to also remind our people that the constitution of our party goes against discrimination. The governor of Edo can come from anywhere. What is important is for the person to have the mental sagacity to lead the people. If you ask me, I think it is only fair in the spirit of justice and equity that the people of Edo Central should be given the opportunity and chance to fly the PDP flag come 2020 governorship election.” As it was gathered by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, it was the decision of the party not to zone the ticket that forced Ize-Iyamu to leave the party, knowing full well the decision would definitely turn out to work against him. However, some PDP stakeholders are already strategising to sack the Orbih-led executive ahead of the primary to pave way for a particular candidate. The stakeholders have threatened to institute a legal action if the national leadership of the party fails to dissolve the state executive and conduct fresh congresses. Former Vice Chairman of Ikpoba-Okha local government area, Jeffrey Osamede Edorodion, who spoke on behalf of the stakeholders in a statement, said they want the national leadership to carry out the dissolution before the conduct of the 2020 election in the state, to maintain party cohesion, peace and unity. Edorodion said the Orbih-led state executive has served the mandatory eight years of two terms provided for in the party’s constitution, stating that, “There is nothing like tenure elongation in our party. The constitution allows a maximum of eight years tenure and minimum of four years. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo tried tenure elongation but he failed. If he failed why will a state chairman of the party try it and succeed? “The present chairman has been in the office since 2009 after the death of former Chairman. He was brought in to complete that tenure; thereafter he has been elected consecutively for two terms, in line with our Constitution.” At a meeting of PDP leaders held at the residence of Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, the Esama of Bénin Kingdom, Orbih said his tenure would end on March 14, 2020 and that he was prepared to step aside. It is glaring that stakeholders in the party are not willing to leave any loose end for the outgoing chairman to have his way by imposing his preferred candidate on the party. Ikhine, one of the aspirants, said recently that, “Edo State is made up of three senatorial districts, North, South and Central and If you look at the PDP, Edo Central has always won elections for the party. We have resolved to discuss and negotiate with the two other senatorial districts that what we want is the governorship slot for the Esan. “You will recall that Chief Lucky Igbinedion was governor for eight years and the still birth that happened in Osunbor time when it was zoned to Edo North. After that time, the governorship position was supposed to come to the Central but it was again taken to the South. At that point in time, we said no, that it was the turn of Edo Central but as faith had it, Ize-Iyamu ran and we lost. Again, before that time, chance was given to Charles Airhiavbere but we also lost. In the past 22 years of the PDP, the Esan man has not been given the chance to aspire to be governor of Edo state,” Ikhine said. The people of Esan as well seem to be determined to clinch the ticket. A chieftain of the party who is also a leader in Esan, Broderick Itua said at a meeting on Monday that, “Without Esan vote, you can’t get PDP governor in Edo State. So we can’t be relegated. We stand firmly that now we are going for the governorship position. Nobody can dictate to us because we are the one who determine politics in Edo State. Though, the incumbent chairman of the PDP in the state believes that his party would benefit from the ongoing crisis in the APC. While addressing PDP faithful after receiving an honorary award at Afemai Declaration of the PDP Edo North Senatorial District, Orbih said the APC in Edo State under Governor Obaseki was making the success of the PDP in the coming governorship election easy by his “non-performance”. Orbih, who stated that the PDP has done well even in the face of intimidation, added that, “The task in our hand is simple, the APC are the ones campaigning for PDP. APC is an expired drug and we must put them aside. So let us take this message to our Ward that in unity, we will take over Edo State. “We have done so well against intimidation, let me also say that you have done very well in Edo North but please don’t relent, we have the governorship election coming up very soon and as you know, only one person will be our candidate. By the time we elect our governorship candidate, we expect all of us to queue behind him, so that he can lead us to victory at the governorship election. In the past few days, I read in the paper about members of the APC admitting that the APC governor in the state has failed but I want to use this opportunity to tell them that it is a collective failure and PDP is ready to take over from them. From what I saw during my tour of the local government, I can see that people are ready to vote APC out of government,” he said. On his part, Oladele Bankole-Balogun who read the Afemai Declaration, said the event was unprecedented and epochal in nature and it was brought about by the reckless governance of the state since 2008. “What has happened today in Agenebode is of an epochal nature totally unprecedented in the annals of our history and this has been brought about by reckless governance since November 2008 where people who have been entrusted with commonwealth of Edo State, have been plundering our resources. The leaders of this Assembly have decided to say enough is enough,” he said. As much as the PDP is condemning the performance of the Obaseki-led administration, speculations are also going round the state that the crisis rocking the APC may bring about a change of game plan. The PDP is said to be waiting on APC to conduct its governorship primary. “Nothing is impossible when it comes to politics. If today, Obaseki decides to come and join the PDP, he would be welcomed with open arms. I can also tell you that he would be given the party’s ticket on a platter of gold. No permanent friend or foe when it comes to politics. Of all those we have as aspirants presently, who amongst them can defeat Obaseki if we are to hold the election today? None of them can defeat him. Obaseki has been able to win the heart of the people by fighting godfathers. “I would not want to say much on this but I can tell you categorically that my party, the PDP will not reject Obaseki if he decides on joining us. As far Edo State is concerned today, I have not seen that candidate that would beat Obaseki but in all, we are watching and waiting to see what will happen in the APC and I am hoping that whatever decision they want to take, it would be to our advantage in the PDP,” a top chieftain of the PDP who doesn’t want to be named told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT. However, another chieftain of the PDP, Patrick Eholor, who is the founder of One Love Foundation, recently criticised the PDP for not exploring the crisis in the APC to take over the state. Elohor said the PDP should have taken advantage of the APC crisis to strengthen itself and become a bride in the forthcoming governorship election in the state, instead of its members busying themselves endorsing Obaseki for a second term. The PDP stalwart, who stated this while fielding questions from newsmen on the crises rocking the two leading parties, said: “You can see that on January 19, a few days ago, a town hall meeting was held in Lagos, for example. When you are doing a summit, you attract people and business. “And if Obaseki was a technocrat that he claimed he is, why will he take our business to Lagos? Has anybody asked that question? If you have a town hall meeting here in Edo State, the hotel will make money, the artisans and the people selling drinks will make money because there is something happening in the city. “If PDP was on the ground and they know what they are doing, it would have been a sweep for the party. PDP should have capitalised on the failure of Obaseki’s administration because all that Obaseki is doing now is to fight godfatherism that brought him to power. So what I am saying is that PDP as a party is in a life-support machine in Edo State,” he said. It would be recalled that Senator Diasy Ehanire-Danjuma, a member of the PDP Board of Trustees (BOT), on Tuesday, endorsed Governor Obaseki during the town hall meeting hosted by the governor in Lagos at the weekend. In its reaction, the Edo State chapter of the PDP described the statement purportedly made by Senator Ehanire-Danjuma as her private thoughts, which does not reflect the thoughts of Edo PDP. The PDP through its publicity secretary in the state, Chris Nehikhare, stated that, “The comments, discussions and purported endorsements credited to her are her private thoughts and do not reflect the thoughts of Edo PDP. “Edo PDP hereby disassociates itself from all that transpired between Senator Daisy Ehanire-Danjuma and the governor. It is abnormal and not politically savvy for party leaders to endorse aspirants of another party other than the candidate of their party. “Being a member of the BOT confers some rights and privileges. It is an abuse of such rights and privileges to publicly endorse a candidate of another party. This action calls for your resignation from such exalted position.” According to him, the statement of endorsement is a morale-damper to the hard-working, committed and loyal men, women and youths of Edo PDP. It is yet unclear where the pendulum will swing in the state considering the crisis rocking the party and the uncertainty surrounding the PDP, which is supposed to be the main opposition in the state. But political observers are of the view that the coming days will be very interesting and decisive in the Heart Beat of the nation.