ASABA – Hafiz Mohammed Inuwa, the new Commissioner of Police (CP), has taken over the leadership of Delta State Police Command from CP Adeyinka Adeleke who is proceeding on a course at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies in Jos with immediate effect. Inuwa who took over the mantle of leadership at 1:37 p.m. on January 2, 2020, declared zero tolerance to crime, saying that he has come to build a formidable security structure from where his predecessor had stopped. He, therefore, posited that he would not condone any form of criminality in the state. He said it would be fire for fire against criminals who might not want to repent and turn a new leaf. Inuwa said, “Though no society is insulated from crime, I will not tolerate heinous crimes. I am using this medium to warn bandits who parade as herdsmen, armed robbers, kidnappers and others to steer clear from innocent citizens in the state, because as far as the Command under me is concerned, we will not tolerate mindless crimes and criminality. “Of course, you know that police alone cannot solve criminality; and so we need the co-operation of all. We need the public to co-operate with us and make sure they report all forms of criminality around them to us. I will make my number available for all; we need the partnership of everybody if we must respond adequately to the security needs of citizens of Delta State. “Let me also warn my officers and men, to desist from any act capable of tarnishing the image of the police. I will again not tolerate any act of indiscipline, connivance and indolence. We need to work professionally and with commitment to tackle security challenges bedeviling our society.” CP Afiz Mohammed Inuwa who was born on March 21, 1964 at Ringim LGA of Jigawa State, was enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force on March 3, 1990 after attending the elite Police Academy in Kaduna. The Police Chief was promoted as Commissioner of Police on October 31, 2017. His last place of assignment was Cross River State from where he was nominated for a course at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) before being posted to Delta as CP. However, the new CP had pledged to leverage on the existing security mechanism already in place towards enthroning the reign of peace and safety in Delta State. The outgone CP Adeyinka had thanked the Government of Delta State and Deltans for their cooperation, while urging them to extend the same cooperation to his successor as he superintends over the command. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network