Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh is the Deputy Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly. In this interview he granted DAILY INDEPENDENT recently, the third term lawmaker who is representing Apapa Constituency 2 noted that for Operation Amotekun to become fully functional and operational, governors of the Southwest states must give the security outfit the necessary backing of the states’ legislature. AKINWUNMI KING brings the excerpts: The federal government through the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami prescribed Operation Amotekun as illegal. Do you think the federal government was wrong in doing this and do you feel the Southwest governors have such powers to set up such outfit? If we are looking at whether the federal government was right or wrong, we may not address the fundamental issue that is on ground. The rate of insecurity in the country is very alarming and there must be an alternative; there must be a way the people tackle their immediate needs. And don’t forget what Aristotle said in his book that ‘it is the people of the same tribe and ethnic groups that can govern themselves better. With the way we are running our federal system, it would be very difficult to tackle the issue of insecurity. Posting someone from Lagos to go and police people in Kebbi, a terrain he is not familiar with, it would be a difficult task for such a police officer. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network However, I don’t agree with the position of the federal government despite the fact that I have my reservation about Operation Amotekun. It was obvious when the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) started, we were in the student movement then, we knew the genuineness and motivation behind the formation of the OPC. But it later turned to an outfit for intervention between wives and husbands, also at a point, it became a land grabbers’ association. Therefore, operation Amotekun must be encouraged and at the same time, must be backed up by due process, which is the law of the state. What I am saying in essence is that the governors of the states involved must be empowered to use the fund of the state for such outfit. Before a governor can dip hands into the state’s funds, it must be budgeted for and it must pass through due process. So, the governors still need to work more on that in order to get it legitimised. Whatever will happen in that outfit must be regulated by law so that it would not turn out to be another self-determination organisation that would be hunting the people they are made to protect. For Malami, I don’t believe he is speaking for the federal government, he is just speaking for himself as the Attorney General. We know the level of insecurity in the country and it is in the North where Malami comes from that we have the highest rate of insecurity now. The question is what is the alternative? Indeed, there are alternatives. You have Ganki boys, the Hisbah group is also there, they are all protecting their people. But because Amotekun was strategically planned backed up by the DAWN Commission, it became a threat to the office of the Attorney General. So, I think that should be addressed and thank God, majority of Nigerians hage spoken in favour of Amotekun. It is necessary for us when the tradition is lacking, a striking example will emerge. It is the theory of nature, thesis will form an antithesis; it is antithesis that would form synthesis. So where there is an action, there must be a reaction; people must protect themselves because they must live, it is one of the laws of nature. After survival and shelter, it is security and welfare. If the Constitution says the security and welfare of the people is the responsibility of government, what is big deal in organising an outfit like Amotekun? Amotekun literarily means leopard, a very calculative animal, and when it comes to security, it is more conscious than even the lion. Can you imagine in this country, a monarch was kidnapped? It has never happened in the history of this country. Even if you are going to kidnap a village, you will exempt the Oba by giving that traditional rite the deserved respect, but that is not happening anymore. On getting a law to back Operation Amotekun, does it mean the states involved are going to individually formulate their laws or how would they go about it? Any of the state can kick start and others will just domicile the law in their various states. It could also be a joint parliamentary; there is nothing wrong in having a Southwest joint parliamentary to arrive at a law. In the Southwest, we now use a common house rules, so what stops us from having a law on security because we link each other together. Briefly after Berger, you are in Ogun State; briefly after Mojoda in Epe, you are in Ogun State, the Ijebu Ode axis; Agbara is half Lagos, half Ogun State. So we can make a law that can be about symbiotic relationship to the Southwest state. So if the law does not affect those in Ogun State, they can tell you that anything after the other side cannot affect them. But we must address it because it is a security matter. It is the business of everybody, not just the police. So if the law is formulated, do you see it seeing the light of the day because some sections of the country, such as the Miyetti Allah group, are against the law? I don’t know what the Miyetti Allah people mean; they are not a Southwest group. We are talking about Amotekun, which is a Southwest outfit; we are saying the people of Southwest want Amotekun, not Miyetti Allah. We want Amotekun in the Southwest and we want it to pass through due process. They are kidnapping even uniform men. In Kanduga, despite the Barracks and everything, Boko Haram consistently attack people there. Are we now saying Kanduga Local Government Area in Borno State, they cannot fish out people that causing trouble there? So, if Miyetti Allah wants to sell their cows, people should just be killed anyhow. I don’t listen to Miyetti Allah anyway but I feel the step the governors have taken is a very good one. But they need to modify some of the things they have done to be back up by due process and law. Few hours ago, the National Leader of your party, All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu suggested a meeting between the Southwest governors and the Attorney General as a means of finding a last solution to the issue. Do you think this would work out? It is a good development and also, when the state House of Assembly involved pass it into law, what is the business of the Attorney General in it?. The Houses of Assembly are empowered to do that to protect our people. People are being kidnapped every day and because it has not gotten to our side, that is why we are not aware. Some parts of Ibadan are not safe to walk when it is past 6pm. Whether you are rich or poor, it does not matter to the kidnappers, provided they know they would generate money when they kidnap you. We in Lagos State have made a law on kidnapping but this would only go further in strengthening the law. Look at their initial manifesto that kidnapping is not allowed; they also list their mission and it is only the vision that we need to modify and back it up by due process of the law. And I think that is what Asiwaju also meant by saying they should come together. It is going to help not just the Southwest, it would help the entire nation. Look at how the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) president in Adamawa State was beheaded after taking a ransom of Fifty Million naira (N50, 000, 000.00). This goes to show that we are in a community where a dog can kill a tiger and that means it is not safe to live in.