LAGOS – Governor Babajide San­wo-Olu, on Tuesday, advised Lagosians to embrace alternative dispute resolution in settling disputes rather than engage in self-help through violent means. Sanwo-Olu gave the charge while commissioning two new offices of the Citizen’s Media­tion Centre (CMC) at Iba and Ojo areas of Lagos. “I will use this opportunity to appeal to all Lagosians to continue to seek the services of the Citizen’s Mediation Centre in resolving disputes that are within its compe­tence to handle,” Sanwo-Olu said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, the new offices commissioned are demonstration of the government’s commitment to institutionalise alter­native disputes resolution through Citizens’ Media­tion Centres and other gov­ernment-owned agencies for proper dispensation of jus­tice in all matters. Sanwo-Olu who was repre­sented by Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN pos­ited that the new facilities and additional personnel will im­prove the speedy and efficient delivery of justice to the people within the axis. While commending the CMC’s effort since its incep­tion, Sanwo-Olu disclosed that over N1 billion have been received on behalf of Clients from over 44,000 cases it han­dled in 2019. The governor also promised to add more centres to the addi­tional 18 existing CMC offices across all 20 local governments and 37 local council develop­ment areas in Lagos State for easier access to justice. In her address, Solici­tor-General/Permanent Sec­retary for Ministry of Jus­tice, Ms Titilayo Shitta-Bey said the establishment of the two offices of the Citizen’s Mediation Centre is to bring justice to the doorsteps of the people. Shitta-Bey assured that the state government will continue to fulfil its commitment to en­suring effective administration of justice in the state. The Chairman House Com­mittee on Judiciary Represent­ing Ojo Constituency I, Victor Akande, who expressed joy at the Governor’s gesture towards the residents of Iba and Ojo axis, thanked Him for bringing the administration of justice closer to the people, stated that the gesture will promote peace in the area.