Tottenham are hoping to strengthen their playing squad over the next week and could add stars from both Real Madrid and Napoli. Spurs sit six points behind fourth-placed Chelsea after a difficult start to the season which saw Mauricio Pochettino lose his job. Former Chelsea and Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho has been open about this desire to add some new player in January, with the latest reports pointing to Luka Jovic and Kalidou Koulibaly. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Spanish outlet El Desmarque have reported that Tottenham have made an enquiry to Real Madrid for their out of form Serbian striker and are in pole position to sign Senegal defender Koulibaly. The report claims that Jovic, 22, is open to leaving Spain having failed to impress Zinedine Zidane since his €60m summer move from Eintracht Frankfurt. The former Benfica forward had only just joined the Bundesliga side permanently from Benfica, and has only managed one goal in 19 appearances so far the season. In what could turn out to be a blow for Zidane’s side, Spurs are also said to have doubled the offer made by Madrid to Napoli for Koulibaly. The 28-year-old has been widely linked with a move away from Italy before and after Carlo Ancelotti left the club, having made his name as one of the best defenders in European football. Spurs are said to be in the market for a striker after Harry Kane’s recent long-term injury blow, with Mourinho admitting this month that his team is lacking something with the England skipper. He said: “To do something you have to do something that is good for our future too, not just good for tomorrow. “Something that is good for the future too and of course the club is very aware of it and the club is very committed of course but we want to do something that is right by every point of you. “So I don’t speak about other players from other clubs about things that can happen or not happen because that’s not me and that’s not the way Tottenham operate too. “But we are trying to see if any good opportunities arise.” He then added: “The team is playing OK, and in spite of we don’t have that killer that guarantees you a certain amount of goals without playing with that guy that is great in the box, that holds the ball under pressure, that is good in the air. “We don’t have that profile of player but we can do it. We can do it. “It’s more difficult when we start losing. It’s more difficult when a team is super close then it’s more difficult for us without a target man but we are working and we did it in spite of three days between matches.” Next up for Mourinho’s side is the FA Cup trip to play Southampton on Saturday before the visit of Manchester City in the Premier League next week.