ABUJA – National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS) has said lack of common trade policy by Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) negates its quest for single currency among member states. In a letter addressed to the Authority of Heads of State and Government and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT by the National President of NANTS, Mr. Ken Ukaoha, expressed sadness over the ECOWAS inability to have common trade policy, which the common currency is expected to serve. According to Ukaoha, “It is therefore, sad to note that till date, ECOWAS is yet to have a Common Trade Policy in place, which the common currency is expected to serve. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Given the above scenario, and given that available trade Protocols such as the ECOWAS Trade Liberalisation Scheme (ETLS) and the adjourning Rights of Free Movement, Rights of Residence and Rights of Establishment are all bereft of political will but obeyed in breach and laden with encumbrances such as Tariff, Non-Tariff Barriers and litany of abnormal practices along the corridors and border posts; it more than ever becomes not only fundamental but strategic to comprehensively reprioritize our regional integration process towards a Common Trade Policy enactment. “It is our strong view that we cannot as a people and Governments be faced with the horrendous acts and infractions that impede trade, support and enable uncontrollable smuggling, drug peddling and trafficking in human, small arms and light weapons; and in the process pretend to be facilitating trade and working towards speedy integration while the resultant border closures stare at us with debilitating implications that ultimately drive long nails into the head leading to a collapse of our private sector. “We must therefore ,rise to primarily address the challenges of ubiquitous bribery and corruption at the borders and along the corridors, harassments and intimidations of our traders and citizens traveling or doing business across the border, and unnecessary delays meted on our goods crossing the borders, etc. “Similarly, the discriminating, ignominious and humiliating treatment of our community traders by some Member States (exemplified by the harassment and closure of shops belonging Nigerians resident in Ghana) is a regional challenge and a total contravention of existing Protocols that must be quickly addressed and treated as a priority in the scheme of ECOWAS integration efforts. It gives a wrong signal to the impending AfCFTA implementation. “We therefore, urge ECOWAS Member States and relevant Authorities to devote more time, resources and political will to the removal of impediments to regional trade while discussions are ongoing for a credible Monetary Union that is founded on the strong and predictable regional trade. “This is the only way that the benefits of a Monetary Union will trickle down to the citizens located even at the lowest ebb of the ladder. “We further urge Member States to equally consider devoting more time to the demanding issues around an implementable and transparent Common External Tariff (CET) which is indispensable but has been on the table receiving less attention. More so, while taking decisions towards a single currency within the Monetary Union, lessons from the experience of the initial negotiations of the CET must be brought to the table, especially given that today, it is abundantly clear to all that the UEMOA 4-digit tariff structure (0, 5, 10 and 20) which was originally adopted before Nigeria’s call for renegotiation would have perhaps collapsed the economies of the region in the light of its inability to support and adequately protect the productive sectors of the economy. “The region must be prepared to look far into the future and programme herself with effective currency and trade buffer. “In technical but clear terms therefore, given the lessons from the European Union on the Monetary Union track vis-à-vis the bail out for countries like Greece in times of economic doldrums, and given that the ECOWAS Monetary Union appears to be the largest in Africa and designed from the European experience, ECOWAS citizens need to see what is on the table for the nations and the entire region as this would facilitate adequate preparation for the unknown including preparations for possible or potential shocks to the economies.”