LEKOIL Limited (LEKOIL), the oil and gas exploration and production company with a focus on Nigeria and West Africa, has announce the appointment of Rt. Hon. Mark Simmonds and Mr. Tony Hawkins as Non-Executive Directors, with immediate effect. Mr. Simmonds, aged 55, was the Foreign & Commonwealth Office Minister with responsibilities for Africa, the Caribbean, UK Overseas Territories, International Energy and Conflict Prevention. He served as a Member of the UK Parliament for 14 years and was also a senior advisor to the then Prime Minister, David Cameron. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He focused on driving and facilitating inward investment into Africa and the Commonwealth across a range of key economic sectors including Hydrocarbons, Financial Services, Healthcare, Infrastructure, Energy & Agriculture. Mr. Simmonds has a deep knowledge of the economic and political composition of African Governments, countries and regions and has chaired the UN Security Council on two occasions. He is Chairman of Africa Oil Week, “The Davos of Africa’s Hydrocarbon Industry” the link between African Governments and the Private Sector and chairs the African Oil Week Advisory Board. He is additionally involved in clean technology for the Hydrocarbon Sector. He has several other international roles which include being a senior advisor to Kroll, chairman of the Advisory Board of the global investment platform, Invest Africa, senior adviser to a Global Multi-Strategy Hedge Fund, senior adviser to a large UK based Family Office, Chairman of GIG Technology and an Advisory Board Member of the Commonwealth Investment Council. He also has roles with not for profit organisations, including as Honorary Vice President of Flora & Fauna International. He is a Trustee of the British Institute in East Africa, a Board Member of Engender Health and of a member of Her Majesty’s Privy Council. Mr. Hawkins, aged 48, is an English and Australian qualified lawyer with 20 years’ experience, who has worked in both private practice and corporate roles. He is a senior energy lawyer, asset manager and commercial negotiator, predominately in oil and gas but also in power, LNG and renewables. Mr. Hawkins is currently the Chief Executive Officer at Columbus Energy Resources plc as well as owning a consultancy firm. Previously, he was Legal and M&A Director at Columbus Energy Resources plc which followed his role as General Counsel & Head of Commercial for Sterling Energy plc, a London listed oil & Gas Company. Prior to Sterling Energy, Tony spent six (6) years at Centrica plc (a FTSE 100 listed utility), where he had several roles, including interim General Counsel for Centrica Energy. Prior to that, he worked for ten (10) years in private practice in Australia and the UK, most recently with Dewey LeBoeuf in London. Mr. Hawkins is a member of the Association of International Petroleum Negotiators and was previously a member of the legal committee of Oil & Gas UK where he was instrumental in helping to develop the standard DES LNG Master Sale Agreement for the European Federation of Energy Traders. Concurrent with these appointments, LEKOIL announces that Mr. Greg Eckersley, who has served as LEKOIL’s interim Chief Financial Officer since May 2019, will not be returning to his previous role on LEKOIL’s Board as a Non-Executive Director following the completion of his six (6) month term in that position. The Company’s finance function will be overseen by a recently appointed CFO of Nigerian operation, with the assistance of the wider LEKOIL finance team. The process to appoint a candidate to assume overall responsibility for the group finance function is ongoing and the Company looks forward to providing an update as and when appropriate. In addition, Non-Executive Director, John van der Welle, will also be stepping down from LEKOIL’s Board with immediate effect. Hezekiah Adesola Oyinlola will assume the role of Chair of the Audit Committee following John’s departure. Greg Eckersley, interim Chief Financial Officer, commented: “It has been a pleasure to be part of the LEKOIL story from its inception, and as a founding Board member since IPO. In the last seven years it has acquired world class assets and has built a highly skilled and technically competent team. I am pleased with the role that I was able to play in helping achieve this, despite the challenging oil E&P environment that we have had to carefully navigate through.” John van der Welle, Non-Executive Director, commented: “Having served on the Board for over six years since the IPO in 2013, through the early stages of the Company’s growth achieved in challenging times in the E&P sector, I would like to wish the Company the very best as it embarks on an exciting operational programme moving forward.” Samuel Adegboyega, Chairman of LEKOIL, commented: “I would also like to welcome Mark and Tony to the Board and thank both Greg and John for their significant contribution to LEKOIL. I know I speak on behalf of the full Board when I say that we will miss their contribution to the Board function, and we wish them all the best in their future endeavors.”