LAGOS – Pastor Tunde Bakare, General Overseer of Latter Rain Assembly has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to institutionalise systems for accurate succession that will build and sustain the nation. The former vice presidential candidate maintained that providing strong leadership must be the first pivotal agenda of the present government in the next three years. “Providing strong leadership means determining the most pertinent objectives of nation-building and, like a laser beam, converging all the energies of state onto those critical areas. It means results-oriented governance, it means now, more than ever, being not just the commander-in-chief but also the unifier-in-chief.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The pastor stated this on Sunday during the state of the nation broadcast themed: ‘Unveiling the true enemies of Nigeria.’  He noted that the the enemies of Nigeria were not sectional agitators nor champions of democracy. He pointed out that sectional agitators, so long as their activities were for the public good and within the ambit of the law, they were not enemies of the nation. Bakare said that they would only become threats to national stability, when they take to subversive tactics, stressing that otherwise, those sectional groups calling for better representation in the context of true federalism, and for self- determination within the provisions of international law, were not the enemies of Nigeria. While renumerating on how to identifying the true enemies of Nigeria, the vocal pastor said, the true enemies of the nation would be found at every level of government, from local to the state and federal levels, and in every arm of government. “They can also be found on the streets, in households and in the marketplace. The true enemies of Nigeria are those who, paraphrasing the words of George Washington, seek to build their greatness upon their country’s ruin. Those who choose to be spectators while the nation goes down the drain on their watch; those perverts on the pulpit who hide under togas of godliness to manipulate the vulnerable.” “Those economic behemoths who window dress their underhandedness with philanthropy.Those who rob, rape, raze, pillage, abduct, murder, dismember in the name of hunger or misguided rage” he said. Bakare, maintained that in the judiciary, they are judges who pervert justice and auction judgments to the highest bidder, and in the legislature, according  to him they are those legislators who rob the nation under the guise of constituency projects, and are quick to pass laws that undermine national freedoms, thereby threatening national stability. Speaking on the social media bill, the cleric stated that he was not in support of the bill and suppression of the press. “I have been misrepresented, maligned and falsely characterised by mischief-makers on social media, but I will not support the suppression of the most potent tool for citizen engagement in the 21st century through a misguided Social Media Bill. “Rather than clamp down on expressiveness, which is the lifeblood of innovation, what we ought to do is pass laws that will further empower our teeming young population. To not just be constructive users of social media platforms, but to be creators of homegrown solutions able to compete globally in a technology-driven world” he asserted.