LAGOS – Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, has disclosed that more than 1.4 million ex-Corps members have benefited from the scheme’s Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) training programme since its commencement in 2012. He stated this in his office when he played host to the Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Hon Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who was on a courtesy visit. Ibrahim disclosed that NYSC management was determined to increase the awareness of entrepreneurship development and wealth creation among Corps members. He pointed out that the introduction of SAED programme was NYSC’s contributions towards youth empowerment and measure to redress and reduce unemployment. “We have gone into partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Bank of Industry (BoI) and other financial institutions which have been provided soft loans to Corps Members to start their businesses”. “As you partner with wealthy Nigerians in the Diaspora, try and encourage them to assist our Corps Members in the area of training or other financial assistance that could make them employers of labour,” the DG said. Ibrahim stressed the need to harness the potentials of Nigerians in Diaspora towards national development. The DG revealed the willingness of the Scheme to partner with the commission to achieve its mandate. He added: “There is need to set up an inter-ministerial committee that will interface with relevant government agencies to discourage youths from enrolling in mushroom universities outside the country.” Earlier, the NIDCOM Chairman, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, commended the NYSC Chief Executive for his tremendous achievements since assumption of duty. She thanked the NYSC Management for assisting the commission in the discharge of its mandate. Dabiri enthused that her NYSC service year changed her life positively through her experiences as a Corps Member at the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), where she honed her skill as a journalist. “There is no alternative to hard work. NYSC changed my life and l believe the scheme should be strengthened for the benefit of our youths. NYSC has also served as an avenue for inter-tribal marriages.” She added, “We want to join you to further achieve the aims and objectives of the NYSC.”