AWKA – On the 14th Anniversary of the Nigeria Civil War, Professor Bede Okigbo granted DAILY INDEPENDENT a long interview detailing efforts made by the Biafran Government not just to sustain the war but also to win it. Okigbo who was former Director of the United Nations University Programme on Natural Resources, Nairobi, was also among pioneer agronomists in Nigeria with specialisation in plant breeding and entomology. When the war broke out he was trained in the Biafran Army and appointed Coordinator, Biafran Land Army in Umudike. He headed a Special Investigation Department on “Special food soldiers eat when going to the battlefield.” That was part of how Biafran Scientists discovered food, vaccines and armaments that sustained them during the war. It appeared that Okigbo had a premonition that at the end when the Civil War would be talked about, he would not be alive to tell his own story; this is because few years later, he joined his ancestors. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As Nigeria marks 50 years of the end of the Civil War, a War Historian, Mr. Ejike Anyaduba, also spoke passionately about the ingenuity of the Biafrans during the war. Anyaduba said, “From available evidence, because I did not participate in the war, I have seen and read extensively especially from Prof. N. C. Oragwu who was a member of Research and Production (RAP). Biafra was able to manufacture ‘Ogbunigwe’, a mass destruction armament made in bucket-like form, which when detonated destroys its target with impact. Biafra didn’t have surface to air missiles and they were contending with superior air power of the Federal troop and they had to manufacture Ogbunigwe to fly to cause maximum damage on the enemy side. “They also manufactured Shore Battery which operated on the sea against enemy ship; it was detonated on the shore of enemies, especially in the area the Third Marine Commandos operated from.” Anyaduba recalled that Biafra also built its own airport, Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC), anti-cholera vaccines and protein packs in order to alleviate the pains of miasmas otherwise known as Kwashiorkor, a protein deficiency disease that ravaged the children of Biafra. Anyaduba also narrated that Biafra also refined its own crude oil “which Nigeria at this age could not do; we have to rely on imported oil,” among other things. He lamented, “If what Biafra started was followed up, the country would have been better for it. We would have been a technology advanced nation by now and would be able to manufacture our own arm and ammunition. Today, Nigeria prides itself as Giant of Africa but it is not; you have Egypt; you have South Africa. We wouldn’t be where we are today generally because Biafra didn’t limit itself to technology but also in medicine and other areas. “It was Biafra’s single effort that sustained the war for the 30 months it lasted. Elsewhere, those who manufactured those things would have been brought together so as to tap from their technological or scientific expertise. When the war ended, the then Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, declared the three Rs – Reconciliation, Reconstruction and Re-integration. In fact, General Gowon declared that there was no victor, no vanquished. But we were vanquished. “The Igbo man was not treated fairly in all things; so you don’t expect them to encourage Igbos to do that. They would rather bring somebody from without to teach them that technology,” he lamented. Recalling the ding-dong INNOSON Motor Manufacturing Company had been undergoing in recent times Anyaduba said, “We know, for instance, that if INNOSON who manufactures vehicles in Nnewi, whether he does it whole or in part, if he is from the North he would enjoy greater patronage from the Federal Government than he does at present. Anyaduba is just one among thousands of Igbo people who believed that Nigeria’s technological advancement was held back for lack of following up Biafra’s work during the war. However, not all Igbo scholars and researchers are agreed to this view. One of them is Anambra State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. C. Don Adinuba. Adinuba said that having been Special Assistant to the Minister of Science and Technology in post war years, he was an insider and knows what happened. Asked if Nigeria really lost the opportunity of leveraging from Biafra’s war experience, Adinuba said, “There are a lot of opportunities Nigeria had not utilised and Biafra was one of them. But even Nigeria did better after the civil war. The Administrator of the East Central State, Dr. Ukpabi Asika, created PRODA (Projects Development Institute) Enugu and brought the same scientists to work there. Prof. Gordian Ezekwe headed it. It was set up by the East Central State Government and was later brought to the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology. Intrigues by Igbo people led to its near death. There was terrible infighting. To say that Federal Government neglected it is a proper lie.” Adinuba said PRODA had its glorious days when it was better funded under Prof. Ezekwe and later National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) was carved out. He lamented that there are a lot of lies Igbo spread about it that are not true. He added, “A lot of Igbo people don’t have balanced view on issues. Some people said PRODA was doing well and Nigerian Government destroyed it. Lie. PRODA was struggling and Nigerian government took it up under Dr. Oragwam. It became a National Institution and was doing very well, then Igbos began infighting, just as Igbos fought to destroy the University of Nigeria under Prof. Frank Ndili. Adinuba in absolving Federal Government of any hindrance in Biafra Technology transfer recalled how General T. Y. Danjuma became instrumental to the establishment of National War Museum after seeing a similar museum in an European country he traveled to. However, all those interviewed were in agreement that Nigeria will not survive another civil war. Quoting from the speech of Gen. Danjuma during his retirement in 1979, he said, “I am not aware of any country that survived two wars, either a civil war or religious war. I want to draw attention to the dangers of religious extremism and intolerance in Nigeria.” He said there might not be a war in Nigeria but there would be deep prolonged crisis because as a democracy it is difficult for the country to fight with itself. This is also the view of Anyaduba but he feared the country is going back to the era that caused the Civil War. Anyaduba warned, “It is wise for Nigeria to avoid fighting another war because the way Nigeria is going, we are getting close to another war. I am saying that we would have learnt our lessons a for some of these people who are pushing Nigeria close to war were actors even if they were not field commanders. We should do everything possible so that we don’t go to war again. The first one was internecine, and it cost Nigeria a lot. I don’t know how it would be this time with modern technology everywhere.”