Salisu Yusuf, the Technical Adviser, Rangers International FC of Enugu, has lauded his team for their fighting spirit in the club’s 2-1 away win over Warri Wolves FC of Delta. Rangers in the midweek match day 15 of the ongoing Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) grabbed their first away win over host Warri Wolves. In an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Thursday, Yusuf described the win as a thing of joy, saying that things had begun to turn around for the club. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ”This is the beginning of more away wins to come and that was what we have been fighting for since I took over the club. ”Remember that we have been close to winning some of our away matches in the league, but ill luck has been the order of the day. ”Against Heartland FC, we took the lead and later relinquished our lead towards the end of the match to lose the match 2-1. ”In most of the away matches, we scored goals. We were almost at the edge of winning and thank God we had it now,” he said. The coach said that the club’s woeful performance in the league and continental had always been a nightmare to them. ”It was always a bitter experience both at home and in the continent, but I wish we will replicate this in our remaining matches in the continent,” he said. He said the club now had to sit up for greater challenges ahead, pointing out that the battle had just begun. ”Now that we have started winning matches in the league, other clubs will not be taking us for granted. ”For us to maintain this feat, we have to brace up and employ tactics that will help us win matches and difficult for other teams to curtail,” Yusuf said. He thanked the club management, players, technical crew and the supporters for their steadfastness and perseverance during the club’s challenging period. NAN reports that the win over Warri Wolves catapulted the club to the 18th position, two teps away from the bottom of the log. However, the team are still in the relegation zone, in spite of the win, with 12 points from 11 matches with four outstanding.