Iran fired more than a dozen rockets at two Iraqi military bases hosting US troops early on Wednesday morning, the Pentagon confirmed. The missiles targeted the Ain al-Asad base in Anbar province and a facility near Erbil’s airport in northern Iraq and were fired in retaliation for the US killing of top commander Qassem Soleimani, Iran said. US President Donald Trump said he would make a statement on the attacks on Wednesday morning in Washington. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As tension increases, governments elsewhere in the world are calling for a return to diplomacy and considering plans to withdraw their citizens. Below are reactions from around the world: Japan Japan urged governments to do their utmost to help ease tensions following the missile strikes, with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe expected to call off a visit this weekend to Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Oman. Japanese Chief Cabinet spokesman Yoshihide Suga said Wednesday that his “government will coordinate with the related governments to collect intelligence while we ensure the safety of Japanese citizens in the region. “Japan will also urge all related nations to do their utmost diplomatic effort to improve the relations,” he added. Japan is sending a warship to the Gulf to help safeguard Japanese vessels and oil tankers travelling through the area. Australia Following the attacks, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said all his country’s troops and diplomatic staff in Iraq were safe. Around 300 Australian defence personnel are stationed in Iraq. Morrison said he had discussed the situation between the US and Iran with Trump on Tuesday during a call about the bushfires raging in Australia. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Morrison said in reference to Soleimani’s killing: “The United States have taken the action that they have to address what has been intelligence that they say they received, which was putting their interests at risk and under threat.” The Philippines The Philippines has ordered its citizens to leave Iraq in the wake of the strikes by Iran, the Philippine foreign ministry said on Wednesday. “The alert level in entire Iraq has been raised to alert level 4 calling for mandatory evacuation,” said Eduardo Mendez, a spokesman at the Department of Foreign Affairs. The department said there are 1,600 Filipinos working in Iraq, more than half in the Kurdistan region and the rest at US and other foreign facilities in Baghdad and in commercial establishments in Erbil. A Philippine coastguard patrol vessel, newly acquired from France and en route to the Philippines, was ordered to sail to Oman and Dubai to assist Filipinos who may need to leave. “Overseas Filipino workers will be brought to safer ports where there may be airlifted, as the need arises,” the coastguard said in a statement. Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana, who heads a newly created committee to prepare the evacuations, said on Tuesday the government was preparing aircraft for Filipinos in Iraq and Iran who wished to come home or move to safer areas. About 2.3 million people from the Philippines are working in the Middle East as domestic helpers, construction workers, engineers and nurses. India India has advised its nationals to avoid all non-essential travel to Iraq until further notice. Those already in the country have been told to be alert and avoid travelling around the country. New Zealand New Zealand’s acting prime minister, Winston Peters, said on Wednesday, expressed concern over the escalation in hostilities between Iran and the US. “Now is the time for restraint and de-escalation, and for diplomacy to take over….the government has been informed that all New Zealand personnel are as safe as they can be in these developing circumstances,” Peters said. New Zealand has 50 military personnel in Iraq, where Iran attacked two bases on Wednesday. Camp Taji, where most New Zealanders are stationed, was not attacked, Peters said. Iran threatens to attack Dubai and Haifa if country is bombed The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said in its Telegram channel that, in the event Iranian soil is bombed, it will target the cities of Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Haifa, Israel, in the third wave of operations. Security beefed up around White House after Iran attack Security has been increased around the grounds of the White House tonight in light of the current tensions with Iran, a law enforcement official said. A US Secret Service official declined to comment, passing along a statement released by the agency, saying it “continually assesses the threat environment surrounding all protectees.” USSS officers with assault rifles were spotted at checkpoints near the White House.