The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest, has not only berated but has gone ahead to disown a few of its members who had  recently caused an online publication disparaging the person and office of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State over an alleged but unfounded hike in the tuition fee of the Lagos State University (LASU). A statement jointly signed by Comrades Kappo Samuel Olawale and Olatunji Nurudeen Ishola, Coordinator and Public Relations Officer respectively NANS Zone D described the said publication sponsored by “one Kowe Odunayo and his cohorts” as offensive and emanating from political scavengers. Here below is the full statement: Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The attention of the leadership of National Association of Nigerian Students – Southwest (NANS ZONE D) has been drawn to an online publication issued by one Kowe Odunayo in the name of the Association to attack the person of the Governor of Lagos State Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the Management of Lagos State University. “We hereby dissociate ourselves from the offensive publication and categorically inform the General Public that Kowe Odunayo and cohorts are political scavengers in the name of NANS. They neither represent the leadership of the Association, nor are empowered to speak for the Association and, therefore, shouldn’t be taken seriously. “Furthermore, we are aware of the incident of an examination stampede that happened at the Lagos State University on Monday, 6th January 2020 and had totally condemned it. The Coordinator of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest Zone D; Comrade Kappo Samuel Olawale together with the Management of Lagos State University visited the scene of the stampede immediately it occurred and ensured the restoration of balance to the situation by postponing the examination and also ensured first-class medical attention to victims of the stampede. “Our findings showed that the stampede was as a result of stress on the facility where the examination was held as thousands of students were billed to write an examination at the 500 capacity ICT hall and non-adherence to the instruction of taking the examinations in batches on the part of the students. “We frowned at the arrangement of the examination as other ICT facilities were available for use which could have prevented the situation while calling on the University Management to ensure better arrangement for subsequent examinations. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has shown over time his commitment to the educational sector of the State through several educational intervention; the BOT agreement signed with six concessionaires to build 8,272 units hostel at Lagos State University, plan to upgrade Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education to University of Education, Continuation of the Ready Set Work Program, Training for Primary School Teachers etcetera. “We hereby appeal to the Governor, Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, not to listen to these political scavengers and continue to work hard to further ensure the development of the educational sector of the State. “We equally use this medium to parade publicly the impostors using NANS to perpetrate their illegality. Consequently, we declare them and their activities criminal. We urge the General Public not to pay attention to them while we work on putting them where they ought to be. “The impostors are: 1. Kowe Odunayo – Coordinator (Federal College of Education, Akure) 2. Akinwunmi Akeem – Deputy Coordinator (Tai Solarin University of Education) 3. Giwa Yisa – Secretary-General (University of Lagos) 4. Aniyi Oluwatoba – Assistant Secretary-General (Ekiti State University) 5. Kazeem Olalekan – PRO (Obafemi Awolowo University) 6. Showunmi Emmanuel – Treasurer (Moshood Abiola Polytechnic) “The Lagos State University (LASU) Management has also assured us of not increasing the fees of the university. “We remain resolute and committed to fighting the course of the students whilst contributing our quota to National Development”.  