RAJI ADEBAYO/ YAQOUB POPOOLA IBADAN/ADO-EKITI  – The Yoruba at home and in diasporas have been urged to come out en masse on Tuesday January 21 for a protest rally in support of ‘Operation Amotekun’, a joint security network recently established by the South West governors to wage war against the rising spate of insecurity in the zone. This is as Chief Jide Awe, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has warned the Federal Government not to push the people of South West geo-political zone to the wall over the issue of ‘Amotekun’. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The planned mass protest, code named ‘Amotekun Solidarity Walk’, being organised by Yoruba World Congress (YWC), an umbrella body of all Yoruba socio-cultural and self determination groups within and beyond Nigeria, will take place in the capital cities of all South West states. The YWC is led by foremost Yoruba leader, Emeritus Professor of History and Second Republic Senator, Banji Akintoye. Comrade Victor Taiwo, YWC Director of Contacts and Mobilization, in a statement on Saturday, said  the protest would hold simultaneously in Lagos, Abeokuta, Ibadan, Osogbo, Akure and Ado-Ekiti, respectively from 9.am. It read: “All Yoruba people are urged to come out in their millions any where they are in Oduduwa land on Tuesday to show to the world that Amotekun has come to stay. “We must show to the external forces and their internal collaborators, who want to stampede our resolve to protect ourselves, safeguard our land from kidnappers, armed-robbery and put an end to consistent destruction of our farm lands that enough is enough. “Well-meaning Yoruba people and Leaders of Thought would be at designated venues to address the protest. We want to assure our governors that Yoruba people are behind them on Amotekun. We urge them not to shiver and they must never shiver. It is ‘No retreat, no surrender’. We will not surrender Amotekun.” According to the statement, those in Lagos would converge at Gani Fawehinmi Freedom Park, Ojota; Oyo, Opposite Agodi Cenotaph, Ibadan; Ogun, Pansheke Junction, Abeokuta; Osun, Nelson Mandela Freedom Park, Osogbo; Ondo, Alagbaka Roundabout, opposite First Bank, Akure, while those in Ekiti would converge at Fajuyi Round About, Ado-Ekiti. Meanwhile, Chief Awe, the immediate past chairman of APC in Ekiti State, while issuing a warning to the Federal Government, stated that rather condemning the people of South West for the Amotekun initiative, the government should have commended it. Awe, who spoke during a radio proramme monitored on Saturday, condemned the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami’s disposition to the issue. The APC chief, who was reacting to a statement credited to the Miyetti Allah Herders Association on the 2023 presidency, argued that South West had paid its dues and had been destined to produce the next president, going by the principle of rotation. He said: “The Federal Government should even appreciate the fact that the South West governors openly formed the security body. What of if it was a secret body? That would be more dangerous and the Federal Government should not push the zone to that level. “For Abubakar Malami to have a complete work, let him tell Nigerians that hiring of private guard is illegal. Let him tell us that fencing a building or purchase of generating sets are also illegal as well. “Let him know that as big men exist and protected by army, police and others, we at the lowest rung of the ladder must be allowed to live our lives, we too must be protected and Amotekun is for this purpose, because FG has failed us.” Awe posited that the inability to secure the lives of the people by conventional security outfits signposted that Nigeria is now a completely failed state. “Anything that has to do with security does not carry the toga of politics, so it will be a great disservice to our people to politicise the issues surrounding the formation and proscription of Amotekun. “I salute our governors for breaking the barrier of hardlining politics to form this joint security. I am still at loss with the claim by the federal government that Amotekun was illegal. “People were being kidnapped, robbed, killed and traumatised on daily basis and the FG did nothing. Do they want our governors to watch as their people were being killed?”