The Nigerian transportation system is standing on a very faulty foundation with so much pressure on the roads. This has brought a huge loss not only to the government, but also to investors, importers and their agents and Nigerians in general. This has resulted into increase of unemployment and capital flight. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKO examine how intermodal transport, talking about the road, rail, water, air and pipeline transportation will save the situation. Excerpts: Nigeria is endowed with maritime or water resources. Nigeria also has very wide coastline that can enhance its transport system, but much of transportation in the country is done by road and this puts much pressure on the roads. This also costs the government so much money to maintain the roads. It also put lives and goods in transit at risk, resulting in the opportunity for criminal elements to take advantage of areas where there are potholes, where there are traffic slowdown to rob, kidnap of carry out other nous criminal acts. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Transportation system in the country when assessed on the scale of one to 100 is operating at 15. That is very poor. During the colonial and shortly after the pre-colonial era, people used to travel by water from Port Harcourt in Rivers State to Lagos State. People travelled by ferries from Calabar, Cross River State to Oron in Akwa Ibom State. Today, most of those very reliable means of water transportation are no longer in use. Agreed that Nigeria is trying to smart up on the rail system, a lot of work in ongoing in trying to improve the rail system in the country, but we are still far behind. Even the standard gauge that we are celebrating is not a modern rail system. There are faster rail systems in Kenya and South Africa that are more efficient. The government seems to be putting an outdated system in place, a system that the world has since started moving away or moved away from. Another mode of transport that has not been properly put in use is the pipeline transportation. The pipeline transportation does not carry ordinary cargo; it only carries liquid cargo such as petroleum. You can refine petroleum in Kaduna, and deliver it to depot in Kano, Sokoto, Jigawa, Kebbi and all that without having trucks coming to Kaduna to load. The pipeline transportation has not been utilized. Even the few places where we have pipeline transportation, they have been very much exposed to insecurity, vandalism, theft, siphoning of fuel among others. Air transportation, which is somehow stable, even though many airlines have died, we have more also springing up. There is competition and effective regulation by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority. The maritime transport is very key and strategic in the sense that it is the fulcrum on which Nigeria economy stands. You cannot export oil without maritime transport. About 97 per cent of import into the country is done by water transportation. Maybe air transportation will account for about 7 per cent. We are still far because our port infrastructure are not modern. Access control is not properly put in place; the roads are too narrow for the trucks plying them. The Apapa bad roads have been under repairs for close to 30 years. We have been talking about repairs of Apapa ports access roads since 1980s and 1990s. In 2020, Nigeria is still talking about the same Apapa access roads. This shows that the country is not making progress in terms of transport infrastructure. When you finish repairing one part, another part will cave in. Apapa road has always been featuring in budget after budget. That is to show that enough importance has not been attached to the maritime transport infrastructure. Private sector partnership in maritime sector infrastructure development for a Third World country like Nigeria, which is indebted, is not ideal. Nigeria should not continually get enslaved by the Chinese under the guise of loans, without having a reliable means of paying back. The oil market Nigeria relying on is dwindling every day and it is no longer a sustainable revenue source for the country. This is because the world is tilting away from petrol-driven cars to solar driven cars and even electric cars. If the world starts manufacturing solar-driven cars and electric in large number, then Nigeria will be at loss because the country relies solely on petroleum for revenues. Speaking on how defective transportation system is affecting ease of doing business and the country’s economic growth, Ismail Aniemu, a maritime analyst said transport is the nerve of economic activities in the country. He averred that once you remove transport or logistics, everything would be grounded and become comatose. This, according to him, has a direct effect on the economy. He said that this affects banking industry, the stock market, prices of foodstuffs, among others. “Transport is central to ease of doing business. Transport system connects people and enables people to move from place to place. It connects markets, and enables commerce. So, ease of doing business is non-existence where transport is deficient. Ease of doing business in the port sector is a joke; this is because you cannot be talking about ease of doing business when trucks are spending three weeks on Oshodi-Apapa road before they enter the port. You are bringing perishable agricultural products, they want to enter the port, before they will be examined and discharged on the road alone, they are spending three weeks, and the thing is perishable. Once transport is deficient, every other business is in comatose because transport is the nerve with which commercial activities thrive.” Speaking on the way forward, Mrs. Mary James, a businesswoman, said that Nigeria should see transport as central to everything it does, adding that transport has social, economic and other implications on human beings. According to her, once there is transport deficiency, everything is affected. “Lack of transport disconnects, it disconnects families, it disconnects supply of goods and services and when they are eventually supplied, it will come at higher cost. It increases inflation level.” The government, according to her, must budget more for transport. She pointed out that transport should not be seen as a goldmine where politicians are assigned to come and make money and design white elephant projects. She said that the government should only appoint those who have the knowledge of transportation to handle it, ant not to appoint people in places to please political masters. It would be recalled that for several years Apapa, which houses the two major economic gateways, Apapa and Tin-Can Island seaports, have been a shadow of itself, largely due to the persistent traffic gridlock within the area, resulting from the nation’s failed transport system. The problem of gridlock, which port users, residents and businesses in Apapa are facing was largely due to Nigeria’s overdependence on road transportation as well as the failure to develop transport infrastructure and to connect various transport modes. Worried by the defective transportation in the country , the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration (CIoTA) recently, organised a National Transportation Summit in Abuja with the theme: ‘Unlocking the Potential of Transportation for Sustainable Development.’ The aim was to find sustainable solution to the challenges facing the nation’s transport system. Just recently, also, he United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) scored Nigeria ‘very low’ due to lack of connectivity of its major transportation modes, including the rail, pipeline, air, water and road transport. The situation, which results from poor transport infrastructure to link the hinterlands to the urban markets has affected the cost and ease of doing business in Nigeria, as Nigerians continue to pay dearly to move both raw materials and finished products to markets where they are needed. This was why Nigeria also ranks low in the World Bank Ease of Doing Business ranking. Manufacturers are presently bearing the brunt of poor transport infrastructure across the nation’s supply chain as 46 percent of their production cost now goes to the transportation component of the manufacturing business. Consequently, Nigerian manufacturers cannot compete with their counterparts in China and even in Benin Republic due to lack of effective and modern transport system. This shows that existence of transport infrastructure and effective connection of different transportation modes bring down cost of doing business, because if Nigeria has good roads and railway, the manufacturers will have competitive advantage over other countries. Hassan Bello, Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), noted that it costs hundreds of thousands of naira to hire a truck to move one 20-foot container from Lagos to Kaduna by road, but less to move same by rail. “There is massive distortion in the transport system, which is eating up the economy and for a country that wants to diversify its economy, it cannot work. Our problem lies in using one mode of transportation all the time without making use of alternatives,” Bello said. Nigeria, according to him, must put transport policy in place to ensure that certain percentage of goods must be carried through different transport modes, including inland waterways, road, and pipeline, while a majority must be moved by rail. “If we have the pipeline, tankers would not be going to Apapa because pipelines are means of transport. Connecting pipeline, inland waterways, railway and air transportation are critical. With such connection in place, the seaport would be linked with river ports such as Baro and Inland Dry Port in Kaduna,” he said. Using the traffic problem in Apapa and Tin-Can Ports as examples, he said that the ports were built with the capacity to handle about 24 million metric tons of cargo, but presently, handle over 89 million metric tons. For him, linking the ports with rail and pipelines would bridge the existing transportation gaps in cargo delays and address the perennial traffic in Apapa area of Lagos. “The whole of Apapa should be handed over to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) as a way of restoring sanity in Apapa. The NPA should have the sole right to determine who does or builds what within the port environment,” he suggested. Also speaking in the same vein, Prof. Pat Utomi, a leading economist, identified weak property right as one of the biggest threat to inflow of capital and foreign direct investment (FDI) into Nigeria’s economy. Nigeria, according to him, is presently losing relevance to smaller African countries due to lack of efficient transport infrastructure. Utomi said that investors do not go to countries where property rights are threatened. “In Nigeria, governors are revoking Certificates of Occupancy (C of O) approved by their predecessors. We are talking of properties that people have invested billions of naira to build. “Africa will not make the progress that it destined to make unless Nigeria leads the flying geese. What transformed Southeast Asia economy? It was Singapore that began to get it right, and others looked across the border, and joined in the development stride. Before you knew it, Malaysia, Thailand and others had their economy transformed,” he said. Utomi, who noted that Nigeria was central to African development, said it was unfortunate that Nigeria had not done something right in the transport sector such that small countries are beginning to lead the way on the continent. Citing an example, he said he recently visited Addis Ababa, and saw that they have functional light rail and that the road network in the country is flourishing beyond imagination. Noting the strategic role of logistics in economic development, Utomi said: “China’s dramatic rise was due to the fact that they were able to turnaround their logistics sector. We need to see a lot of investments to come to Nigeria’s transport infrastructure,” he suggested. Emmanuel Iheanacho, a former minister of Interior, blamed the problems in Apapa port on lack of adequate transport infrastructure to handle the volume of cargoes coming to the port. “On Creek Road in Apapa, there are numerous obsolete buildings that the government could buy, demolish and convert those areas into marshalling areas for cargoes. What we advocate is dynamism,” he said. According to him, Apapa problem has gone beyond deploying the military to clear the roads, because Apapa requires expansion and redesigning of the port infrastructure and access roads to the hinterland in line with the volume of trade. Nigeria, he stated, is a nation that has to improve transport infrastructure to meet the 4 percent annual increase in world trade volume, which has also affected Nigerian economy. Iheanacho stated that the shipping industry has played a significant role in taking millions of people out of poverty around the world. Therefore, he urged the Nigerian government to invest more in infrastructure in order to create wealth and allow the citizens feel the impact of the enormous opportunities in shipping via poor infrastructure. To address this, Bashir Jamoh, president of CIoTA, stated that the institute on its part has decided to professionalise all aspects of transportation industry in Nigeria for sustainable development. According to him, the Institute plans to engage some graduate youths already mobilised for the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) as transport administration volunteers. The volunteer group, he said, would work with other relevant government agencies like Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC) in carrying out its activities of ensuring ease of movement of goods and passengers on Nigerians. Jamoh, who stated that CIoTA would conduct research, aimed at finding sustainable solutions to most of the transport challenges in the country, pointed out that the recent assent of CIoTA bill into law by Mr. President, said the law recognises the institute as the sole professional body in the transport industry. “CIoTA will engage all stakeholders to ensure professionalism among transport administrators in Nigeria.” To ensure that transport trainings are up to standard, the Institute is also perfecting plans to upgrade the curriculum of transport training schools as well as partner universities that are into the training of transport administrators, in order to enhance professionalism in the sector. Meanwhile, Bello said CIoTA holds the answer to several of Nigeria’s lingering transport issues since it is organised, devoid of unhealthy rivalry and not having any distraction like leadership tussles. Nigeria, Bello said, is in the era of diversification of national revenue sources and the transport sector is supportive of other businesses including creation of much needed employments. T he Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents ANLCA has thrown its weight behind the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration Nigeria (CIoTA), over its plans to revamp and professionalise the country’s transport sector, describing the move as a right step in the right direction. Dr. Bashir Jamoh, President of the institute,  had while presenting a welcome address at the maiden National Transport Summit organised in Abuja by CIoTA with the theme: Unlocking the Potential of Transport for Sustainable Growth”, pledged that the institute would intensify its advocacy in terms of advising the Federal Government on professionalising and improving the lot of the sector with a view to making it more efficient and creating jobs in the country. Tony Iju Nwabunike, National President of ANLCA, who spoke at the sidelines of the summit, said that professionalising the transport sector would be the best thing to have happened to it, especially in the recent past, as it would help remove quackery and unprofessionalism and thereby attract huge direct investments needed to develop the sector. According to him, as professional freight forwarders and major stakeholders in the supply chain in the country, members of the association have at one time or the other been victims of the poor and inefficient transport systems in the country and would therefore support any legal and genuine measures to address the challenges. Nwabunike, who was inducted as a fellow of the institute, also noted that as practitioners in international trade and commerce, members of ANLCA know and appreciate the role of efficient and effective transport and logistics services in terms of efficient delivery of cargo, arguing that efficient transport system would also lead to the efficiency of the nation’s sea and airports. “I wish to use this medium to commend CIoTA for this wonderful initiative to reform the transport sector in Nigeria. In the course of this three-day event, several speakers have alluded to the fact that transport whether air, sea or land is the life-wire of any economy. “This is why ANLCA as professional freight forwarders would like to align with the vision of CIoTA to ensure the connectivity of all the modes of transport in Nigeria. As major operators in the supply chain in Nigeria, we have had unpleasant experiences regarding the poor transport system in the country; we therefore fully support the vision of the institute to bring about professionalism in transport administration in Nigeria. “Multi-modal transport system has become the in thing across the world, which has evidently brought about a lot of efficiency and cost reduction, especially among the developed world and so Nigeria cannot afford to sit on the fence in this 21 century and so must join the frail in reforming and modernising her transport systems. “I therefore, thank the President and Governing Council and indeed the entire membership of the institute for putting this National Summit together. I also urge the institute to ensure the implementation of the recommendations from this event and should be followed through for the benefit of not only the transport sector, but also the nation’s economy as a whole”, the ANLCA National President also said. Recall that the CIoTA President had also said during the event: “We will continue to ensure that Nigeria has only professionals in the transport sector to handle issues affecting it. Nobody who does not have the right qualifications and certifications would be allowed to practise in the transport sector, members need to have up to date experience”. Dr. Jamoh, who doubles as Executive Director, Finance and Administration of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency NIMASA, disclosed that the institute is currently collaborating with the Federal Road Safety Corps FRSC to deploy a volunteer force, which will be drawn from the National Youth Service NYSC to help manage the perennial traffic in Apapa. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has said that it has concluded plan to engage relevant stakeholders to address the persistent gridlock at the nation’s ports. Victor Akinjo, Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Privatisation and Commercialisation, made this known during the committee’s tour of facility at the Ocean and Cargo Terminal in Warri. Akinjo said that the gridlock cost Nigeria about N600 billion monthly, which he said was huge. “When we interfaced with importers and exporters in Lagos, we discovered that the gridlock is costing Nigeria N600 billion monthly. “We took it up on Wednesday at the level of the parliament; we want to engage all stakeholders to see what can be done urgently,” he said. The committee chairman said the purpose of the visit was to interface with the maritime operators and regulators. “Port is the gateway to any economy in the world. You cannot carry tonnage of goods through the air; it must come through the water. “The only way to achieve this is to ensure that our ports are efficient and effective. “The essence of the visit is to interface with the operators and regulators and take on issues I called “privatisation laboratory” and find ways to solving the issues,” he said.