Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday rejected the judgment of the Supreme Court which stripped the party’s candidate, Emeka Ihedioha, of the governorship of Imo State and awarded it to Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The PDP said the Supreme Court, as presently constituted under Justice Tanko Muhammad, had become heavily compromised and lost its credibility. It also said the apex court had now been annexed to execute the agenda of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government against the Nigerian people. It, therefore, called for Chief Justice Muhammad’s resignation. Addressing newsmen at a press conference in Abuja, the national chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, called for a reversal of the Imo governorship judgment, insisting that the judgment was a miscarriage of justice by the apex court. “In order to avoid an imminent breakdown of law and order, the PDP demands that Justice Tanko Muhammad immediately steps down as CJN and chairman of the National Judicial Council as Nigerians have lost confidence in him and a Supreme Court under his leadership,” Secondus said. He noted that Justice Muhammad must not head the panel to determine the remaining election petitions before the Supreme Court. “We demand that Justice Tanko Muhammad, the CJN, and his colleagues on the Imo governorship panel recuse themselves from the remaining cases involving the PDP in the Supreme Court. “We state for the records that the Supreme Court under Justice Tanko Muhammad shall be held responsible if there is any breakdown of law and order in any state as a result of judgments procured solely for political rather than judicial reasons as is currently happening,” he added. Secondus described the judgment as provocative and a recipe for crisis that should not be allowed to stand. “With the verdict, the Supreme Court executed a coup against the PDP and the people of Imo State as well as other Nigerians, and such must not be allowed to have a place in our democracy,” he said. He wondered if the Supreme Court had the powers to formulate and allocate votes as election results and if all the votes from the alleged 388 polling units were for the APC alone in an election that was contested by over 70 candidates. He said: “The fact is that the Supreme Court, as presently constituted under Justice Muhammad has lost its credibility and no longer commands the respect and confidence of Nigerians. “If the people no longer repose confidence in the Supreme Court, then our democracy, national cohesion, and stability are at great risk.” The PDP boss added: “We had intelligence before the verdict on the Imo governorship that the hierarchy of the APC had decided that they must use the Supreme Court to capture the states won and controlled by the PDP such as Imo, Sokoto, Bauchi, Adamawa, and Benue. “Can the PDP rightly trust the impartiality and independence of the panel headed by Justice Tanko Muhammad, the CJN, to adjudicate on the remaining cases involving the PDP like Kano, Sokoto, Benue, Bauchi, Adamawa, Plateau, and others? “Is the same fate awaiting the governors of these states that are controlled by the PDP and other states like Kano where the PDP clearly won and was robbed? “Should Justice Tanko Muhammad and his colleagues on the Imo governorship panel not recuse themselves from the remaining cases involving PDP? “The PDP firmly holds that if the flawed judgment of the Supreme Court on Imo governorship election is allowed to stand, it would be a recipe for anarchy, chaos and constitutional crisis not only in Imo State but in the entire country. “Our party has it in good authority that Justice Tanko and his panel are working on instruction from certain forces in the presidency to use the Supreme Court to take over states lawfully won by the PDP and award them to the APC. “The PDP, therefore, advises Justice Tanko not to allow himself to be used to push our nation to the path of anarchy and constitutional crisis as any further attempt to subvert justice in the pending petitions on Sokoto, Bauchi, Benue, Adamawa as well as Kano and Plateau states will be firmly and vehemently resisted. “In order to avoid an imminent breakdown of law and order, the PDP demands that Justice Tanko Muhammad immediately steps down as CJN and chairman of the National Judicial Council as Nigerians have lost confidence in him and a Supreme Court under his leadership. “Justice Muhammad must not head the panel to determine the remaining election petitions before the Supreme Court. “One final issue to be noted is that it is in the public record that Hon Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun has been the constant instrument used by anti-democratic agents resident in Lagos from where she was elevated to the bench of the Supreme Court, to deliver at least three of the most doubtful and controversial judgments which removed PDP governors and other elected officials. “In the light of extraordinary circumstances that vitiate that judgment as a product of manipulation and a clear coup d’etat against the will of the people of Imo State, we demand that the decision of the Supreme Court on the Imo governorship election be reviewed and reversed in the interest of justice.”