LAGOS – The King of African football will be crowned at the Egyptian resort city of Albatros Citadel, Sahl Hasheesh, Hurghada among a list of three players, Egyptian Mohamed Salah, winner for the past two editions, his Liverpool teammate Sadio Mane of Senegal and Algerian forward Riyad Mahrez. Of the top three contenders, Mane is the only one yet to win the honour in African football, with Mahrez winning the accolade in 2016. In the race for the African Women’s Player of the Year, South African Thembi Kgatlana and Cameroon’s Ajara Nchout Njoya stand in the way of Nigerian Asisat Oshoala’s race to clinch a fourth crown at the CAF Awards. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Nigerian superstar was crowned in 2014, 2016 and 2017 and is hoping to equal the record of her mentor and compatriot Perpetua Nkwocha who was decorated four times – 2004, 2005, 2010, 2011. The event will celebrate African footballers and officials who have distinguished themselves during 2019. There will also be several new award categories in recognition of exceptional contributions to African football and inspiring individuals. Meanwhile, the Interclubs Player of the Year will be decided by the Head Coaches and Captains of the group phase of the current season of CAF Interclubs competitions. In race for the African Interclubs Player of the Year are Anice Badri (Tunisia & Esperance); Tarek Hamed (Egypt & Zamalek) and Youcef Belaïli (Algeria & Esperance / Ahli Jeddah). The duo of Super Eagles players Samuel Chukwueze (Nigeria & Villarreal) and Victor Osimhen (Nigeria & Lille) are in the race for the African Youth Player of the Year alongside Achraf Hakimi (Morocco & Borussia Dortmund). In the race for the African Men’s Coach of the Year are Aliou Cisse (Senegal – Senegal); Djamel Belmadi (Algeria – Algeria) and Moïne Chaâbani (Tunisia – Esperance). For African Women’s Coach of the Year are Alain Djeumfa (Cameroon); Desiree Ellis (South Africa) and Thomas Dennerby (Nigeria). The battle for the African Men’s National Team of the Year will be among Algeria; Madagascar and Senegal while Nigeria; Cameroon and South Africa are in the race for the Women’s category.