Chelsea boss Frank Lampard is reportedly interested in signing a striker this transfer window after his side’s poor outing against Newcastle United and Arsenal int heir last two fixtures. The Blues were forced to a 2-2 draw by 10-man Gunners team after David Luiz was handed a marching order in the first half of their meeting for fouling Tammy Abraham in the 18-yard box. With Frenchman Olivier Giroud not in Lampard’s plans, the London club would need a back up for the 22-year-old in the attack. Although Chelsea are still fourth on the table – five points better than Manchester United, they are not leaving anything to chance as they hope to qualify for Champions League at the end of the season. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to Sky Sports reporter Kaveh Solhekol, the trio of Moussa Dembele, Krzysztof Piatek, and Luka Jovic are all options for the Blues boss. The Europa League defending champions have also been linked with several other strikers including out-of-favour Paris Saint-Germain forward Edinson Cavani. However, Solhekol believes the main targets for Chelsea are Lyon striker Dembele, AC Milan’s Piatek and Real Madrid’s Jovic. “Well there’s Moussa Dembele, who we’ve been speaking about, Chelsea are watching him very, very closely as well,” Solhekol said. “I think he would actually like to come back to England and play for Chelsea, maybe that’s a bit more appealing for him than going to Manchester United at the moment because obviously you’d have Champions League football at Chelsea as well. “The other really interesting one is Krzysztof Piatek, we’ve mentioned him before. “He scored 30 goals last season in Italy, his father’s been talking this week, his father’s basically saying my son is too good to be sitting on the bench for AC Milan, he wants to be playing regularly, he’s going to be playing for Poland at the Euros in the summer, he doesn’t want to be a sub. “He, his father, believes there are clubs in England willing to pay €30m to sign him from AC Milan, that is £25m, so he’s an option. “The other interesting option is Luka Jovic. He’s a player that last summer went from Eintracht Frankfurt to Real Madrid for £60m. “He had an incredible scoring record in Germany, well he’s really been struggling at Madrid. “He’s only scored once this season and Real Madrid are willing to let him leave, so he’s another option for English teams this month as well.” 