Oil prices increased more than 2 per cent yesterday, with Brent rising above $70 a barrel after United States (U.S.) President Donald Trump issued a threat to impose sanctions on Iraq amid escalating tensions with Iran in the Middle East. Brent crude futures rose to a high of $70.27 a barrel up to $1.67, or 2.4 per cent from Friday’s settlement, while the U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI), crude was at $64.39 a barrel, up to $1.34, or 2.1 percent after touching $64.44 earlier, the highest since April. The gains extended Friday’s more-than-3 per cent surge after a U.S. airstrike in Iraq killed top Iranian commander Qassem Soleimani on Friday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The killing has heightened concerns of a widening Middle East conflict that could disrupt oil supplies from a region that accounts for nearly half of the world’s oil production. It would be recalled that President Trump on Sunday threatened to impose sanctions on Iraq, the second-largest producer among the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), if U.S. troops were forced to withdraw from the country. Baghdad earlier called on American and other foreign troops to leave Iraq. Trump also said that the United States will retaliate against Iran if Tehran were to strike back after the killing. The incident “will trigger a long cycle of regional escalation with significant risks to U.S. assets and Mideast energy infrastructure that nevertheless stops short of war,” Eurasia Group analyst Ayham Kamel said in a note. “But the risk of limited conflict is real. It would include substantial Iranian attacks on Gulf energy targets and direct naval clashes between the U.S. and Iran.” The consultancy expects oil prices in 2020 to range from $65 to $75 a barrel, based on rising risks to oil infrastructure in the region. Meanwhile, Capital Economics analyst Caroline Bain said: “Friday’s incident has all but removed the possibility of a lifting of Iranian sanctions, a large downside risk to our oil price forecast.” “Regardless of geopolitical events, we expect constrained supply growth and a modest pick-up in demand to push oil prices higher in 2020,” she added in a note.