LAGOS – Some days after the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami pronounced as illegal, the security outfit codenamed “Operation Amotekun,” launched by the South West governors, various reactions from various individuals came afterwards. Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria; Nobel Laureate, Wole Soyinka; Legal Icon, Afe Babalola were among those who came out to condemn Malami’s pronouncement. At a point, some groups and individuals became so eager to hear fromthe National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), AsiwajuBola Tinubu as they demanded him, being a leader and criticalstakeholder, to make his position known on the matter. A socio-cultural organisation, the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), wasamong the first group to call on Tinubu, asking him to stop playing the ostrich and speak up on controversies surrounding Operation Amotekun. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Secretary-General of YCE, Kunle Olajide, expressed worry about Tinubu’s silence on the matter, noting that the APC leader has abandoned the governors, who took the laudable initiative, amidst the rising wave of insecurity across Yoruba land at the mercy of the federal government. According to Olajide, “One would have expected Tinubu to speak up. His silence is not inspiring to most of us because it is incumbent onevery reasonable Yoruba person to speak on insecurity confronting ussince APC came into power in 2015. YCE is not particularly happy abouthis silence. The entire Yoruba nation supports what the governors have done in setting up Operation Amotekun, but the Federal Government just came up to declare it illegal. Tinubu’s silence is absolutely worrisome.” After much pressure, the APC leader bowed to pressure on Wednesday when he issued a statement titled “The Public Discourse Over Amotekun”where he called for a private discussion between the South West governors and the Attorney-General. He said the foundation of the country had not been put at risk with the South-west regional security outfit launched by the governors of the zone in a bit to confront the insecurity in their states. Though, he was quick to respond to those who beckoned on him to air his opinion on the matter, saying, “Until now, I have deliberately maintained a studied silence regarding Amotekun. Many have tried to goad my swift public reaction. Those who have taken this road did so not because they care about Amotekun or even the people it intends to help protect. They did so knowing this had become a delicate and emotional issue for many. These cynics did so with the adversarial hope that, in haste, I might misspeak or misstep in a manner they could twist to their political advantage. “Such people are possessed of a mercenary aspect that permits them to sacrifice almost anything, even jeopardize the very foundations of our political unity, if they might exact personal gain from the upheaval. In that they know no nobler purpose than their own appetites, we should feel sorry for them. However, we must not allow our sympathies for their barren condition to persuade us that there is worth in their destructive misconduct. They must be left to the consequences of their own devices. “If truly I am a political leader as I am often described, then I have not the luxury of hasty, ill-conceived utterances. There are those who will use inflamed words to spark the passions of others. This may bring transient applause. But when the cheers fade, we shall only have further descended because their words were never inclined toward resolution and long-term improvement but toward short-term popularity and perpetual confrontation. “I believe in this nation and its benign prospects. I dearly love its people, all of them. Over the years of our existence, they have suffered much. Yet they still hold forth with heroic patience and an extraordinary optimism born of strong faith. To these people I owe my best. I shall not treat them cheaply or bandy their emotions like some errant football. The welfare of this good and decent people is my overriding concern. “Equally, I do not cow to the demands of those who press for me to make a premature statement on an important issue. Again, that is a game devised by those who care more about political cleverness than the quality of governance. I chose to talk when my position has been made ripe by a collection of the facts and a reasonable assessment of those facts,” Tinubu stated. Many were expecting the former governor of Lagos State to make a categorical statement on the issue; instead he was neither here nor there, as he welcomed the initiative and at the same time, defended the position of the Minister of Justice. According to him, “In this matter, I do not see malign intent in the differences of opinion between the SW Governors as authors of Amotekun and the Attorney-General as the primary law enforcement officer of the Federal Government. Shorn of the overly dramatic language, what lies before us is but a step in the evolution of our federalism. “This is an opportunity to more clearly define that federalism; but one cannot attain this better, more functional definition through overblown, emotional language. Objectivity and calmness are required. To a significant degree, the enduring quality of our republic will be established by the sagacity with which we handle disagreements regarding the division of power between federal and state governments. Such disagreements are inevitable. This is not the first. Nor will it be the last. We must devote our energies more toward solving problems rather than amplifying them. “Seeking to fulfil their mandates by helping protect their people, the governors of the Southwest collectively established a program to buttress existing security mechanisms. Seeking to protect the constitution as best he could, the Attorney-General offered his opinion on what he believed the governors have sought to do. No one can blame either party for seeking to fulfil what they genuinely see as their public duty. Not making a categorical statement on the issue, has forced some political watchers to believe that the 2023 presidential ambition, which Tinubu is gunning for, has affected his sense of reasoning and judgment. In its reaction to Tinubu’s statement, a pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, said it was not impressed by the APC chieftain’s position on the matter, saying his response portrayed him as a “coward who is afraid of President Muhammadu Buhari.” Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary, who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT, advised Tinubu to take a cue from President Buhari who challenged former governor of Oyo State, the late Lam Adesina when Fulanis were attacked in the state in 2001. According to Odumakin, “We saw the statement where he (Tinubu) turned himself to Tanko’s Supreme Court giving judgments to parties he did not listen to. This is not the time to constitute an Asiwaju Court in hearing cases. It is time to take a stand. Why will anybody be speaking with two sides of his mouth at this moment? “The president he is fearing, when there was crisis in Oke- Ogun in 2001 between Fulani and Hausa, General Buhari then went to Oyo State and told the governor that his people are killing his kinsmen. “When former President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency in three North-East states in 2013, Buhari came out and said, ‘you cannot be giving amnesty to Niger Delta militants and be killing our boys’ and that attack against Boko Haram is attack against the North. “But here is Tinubu turning himself to a judge and giving judgments and saying ‘if you have done this, if you have done that’. We don’t appreciate it. We don’t know him to be a coward and it is only a coward that does not take a position in a moment of crisis. “Instead of speaking from both sides of his mouth, at times it is better to keep quiet and let people think that you are a fool than to speak and remove all doubts,” Odumakin said. On his part, former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode said Tinubu’s comment only ended up defending the Federal Government, just as he described the long statement as “wishy washy”. Reacting via his official twitter handle, @realFFK, the former minister wrote, “I read BAT’s wishy washy statement on Amotekun and his futile attempt to defend the FG. He should stop trying to defend the indefensible. “If by now he does not know that the FG openly supports, encourages and protects those that kill our people then he is far dumber than I thought.”