ABUJA – African Development Bank(AfDB), European Union (EU), Green Climate Fund (GCF) and Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and the Federal Government of Nigeria are to provide €23million for the implementation of the Programme for the Integrated Development and Adaptation to Climate Change in the Niger Basin (PIDACC/NB) in Nigeria. Mr. Baba Musa, National Programme Coordinator of PIDACC/NB in Nigeria announced this yesterday in Abuja at the workshop for the Revitalising the Niger Basin Authority Network of Journalists and Communicators in Nigeria. He said Nigeria is expected to provide its counterpart fund to the said fund, which is loan and grant agreements. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Musa explained that the (PIDACC/NB) is the second phase of the Niger Basin’s Silting Control Program (PLCE/NB) that was funded by the African Development Fund (ADF) for the period 2005-2011, which was successfully executed by the Niger Basin Authority(NBA) in Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger as beneficiaries. He noted that in view of the multiple benefits obtained by the beneficiary member countries, the NBA initiated the PIDACC/NB with the financial support of the African Development Bank (AfDB) to consolidate on the achievements recorded in first phase as well as extend it to Nigeria and other member countries of the NBA. According to him, “The PIDACC/NB is anchored on the need to promote a social sustainable development, protect the large water infrastructure built in the basin and the main wetland areas of the basin “The overall objective of the Programme is to contribute to improving the resilience of the Niger River’s ecosystems and populations through sustainable management of natural resources.” He further explained that the PIDACC/NB-Nigeria Component would be implemented in four Geo-political Zones namely North East, North West, North Central and the South East. The projects are located in the River Basin Development Authorities catchment areas of Upper Benue River Basin,  made up of Adamawa, part of Borno, part of Bauchi, Gombe, Taraba and  Sokoto-Rima River Basin, comprising Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi. Other areas that would benefit from the project include Upper Niger River Basin, which consists of Minna, FCT Abuja, Nasarawa and Anambra-Imo River Basin, comprising Anambra, Imo and Ebonyi States. He stated that the programme would be implemented over a six-year period (2019-2024) in Nigeria, adding that it would directly benefit over four million people, 51per cent of whom are women. “The other beneficiaries also include smallholder farmers and vulnerable groups (women and young people) promoting the sub-projects,” he said. While underscoring the readiness of the Federal Government to the implementation of the programme, Musa said, “The National Programme Coordination Unit (NPCU) has been established and all requisite key-personnel for implementation of the programme have been recruited. “All prerequisite conditions for the Loan and Grant Agreements to become effective have been fulfilled by the FGN and these documents have been transmitted to the AfDB through the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “Following the “No Objection” for annual work plan and budget, as well as procurement plan, application for first disbursement was submitted to the Bank which is now awaiting “No Objection” for release of funds into the special account to kick start the programme activities.”