ABUJA – The Federal Government through the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN) has concluded plans to create Furniture and Wood Enterprise Cluster to reduce foreign exchange leakages occasioned by furniture imports. Dr. Dikko Umaru Radda, Director General of SMEDAN, who made the disclosure in an interview with our correspondent in Abuja yesterday, said Idu Industrial Centre in Abuja would be used for the Furniture and Wood Enterprise Cluster, adding that a study was conducted to ascertain the viability of industrial centres in Nigeria, and Idu Industrial Layout in Abuja was chosen for the pilot project slated for this year. Radda said the proposed Furniture and Wood Enterprise Cluster in Idu would drastically reduce import of furniture from Dubai, Turkey and other countries into Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He assured that machineries would be put in place to equip entrepreneurs with best tools to manufacture what Nigerians need. He pointed out that SMEDAN would ensure that the Cluster meets all standards required to have world class cluster for furniture and wood production. Radda further explained that after the implementation of the pilot project, that SMEDAN would go into public private partnership with interested members of the public to develop other industrial clusters across the country. According to him, “The study recommended that one in Idu should be converted to Furniture and Wood Cluster, which will meet global requirement. That is what we intend to achieve in 2020.” The Director General of SMEDAN revealed that the project has been captured in 2020 budget, adding that as soon as the money is released, the implementation of the project would commence in earnest. He disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari would be expected to launch the pilot project. He expressed optimism that the project would provide work environment for people working in the furniture and woodwork sector of the economy, as well as provide them with modern equipment to work.