ABUJA – Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State has said the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) was working with the leadership of the party and President Muhammadu Buhari to resolve the crisis that has polarized members of the National Working Committee (NWC) down to members across some states. The crisis of confidence is not limited to the party’s high echelon in Abuja. Adams Ohiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is also embroiled in an attrition at home in Edo State with Governor Godwin Obaseki, whose faction of the party there has since suspended him from the party. Also the crisis of APC Rivers has remained unresolved, prompting many, including Governor Kayode Fayemi to conclude that APC would fizzle out as a party at the end of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Recall that a number of APC NWC members and state chairmen of APC have come out to voice their lack of confidence on the APC leadership under Oshiomhole, asking him to resign. However, Badaru said leaders of the party were not glossing over the problem, saying the forum of governors elected on the platform of APC was working with Buhari to find a lasting solution to the problem. He was fielding questions on Friday at the first quarterly meeting of the Governance Steering Committee of the forum in Abuja. “What I will have to say on the party is that the leadership of APC, Progressives Governors Forum is working day and night to ensure that the issue is resolved and I assure that Mr. President is also looking at the issue to make sure that the leadership crisis is resolved and it will be resolved in no time. We are working on it and God’s willing it will be over soon.” He admitted the fragile state of the ruling but maintained the party would survive the rift and stay beyond the present administration. “On the survival of APC after President Buhari, President Buhari made a commitment to the Governors that he will support us in anyway to make sure that the party survives and waxes stronger even after him,” he said. On Amotekun, he said, “I believe the Federal Government and the regions are finding some solutions and I think they will resolve the issues on how they will do it and also I think security is peculiar to each state … it depends on each state what they believe will work for them, some will want Amotekun, some will want dialogue, Jigawa we don’t need any. We cannot say it’s a policy that all APC states will take – depends on your peculiarities, what will work for you to protect lives and properties. He also reacted to the nation’s rating by the global corruption watchdog, saying that the administration has made appreciable progress in some aspects of the scourge. “On corruption, we have to look at the index carefully, not the general ranking. Some of the index, the corruption is coming down, in some it is going up, so you have to look at the index. When you say corruption, everybody looks at government.