Lagos – Justice Mojisola Dada of a Lagos State Special Offence Court, sitting in Ikeja on Thursday sentenced one Chibundu Joseph Anuebunwa to 1- year in prison over conspiracy to steal. Saturday INDEPENDENT reports that the convict, Chibundu was nabbed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) following the FBI’s exposure on notorious Nigerians involved in Internet Fraud. He was however arrested after a petition was received against him and his brother who is now at large. Justice Dada Convicted Chibundu after finding him guilty of a two court charge bothering on  conspiracy to steal and retaining stolen property which are contrary to sections 411 and 328(1) of the criminal law of Lagos state 2015. According  to the anti-graft agency, the  commission received a petition dated July 10, 2019 from the FBI dated that the duo were involved in BEC (Business Email Compromise) fraud, romance scams, Mystery shopper fraud and tax fraud. At the resume of the proceedings, Counsel to the prosecution,  I.A Mohammad informed the court that the defendant has in his possession the sum of 29,220,000 million naira which was discovered during investigation. While sentencing the convict, Justice Dada said: “In view of plea of guilt by the defendant and considering the fact that he did not waste the time of the court , I hereby  sentenced him to I-year imprisonment in accordance with the law.” She however ruled that the court will grant the convict an option of fine, in the sum of N1.5 million. “The defendant must forfeit the sum of 29.220 million naira in his procession to the Federal government of Nigeria,” she said. In his allocutus, the defence counsel, A.A Adetunji urges to show the convict mercy because he is a first time offender and he did not waste the time of the court by admitting to the crime. “My lord, the convict before you today was never arrested by the EFCC. He went to their office on his own accord, he is a family man, and he is remorseful because he has learnt from his mistake. “He never knew all the money that was being sent to him by his brother was not from a legitimate source and that is why he agreed to the charge. “We urge your lordship to show him mercy because he has learnt his lessons.