The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has issued certificates of return to the winners of the January 25, 2020 rerun election held in Arochukwu and Abia south constituencies of Abia State. Addressing the winners and their supporters at the INEC headquarters in Umuahia, the state capital, Wednesday, the Resident Electoral commissions (REC), Joseph IIoh, explained that the rerun election was pursuant to the orders of the court of Appeal, Owerri that the exercise be conducted in definite polling units in Arochukwu and Aba South Local Government Areas of Abia. He noted that the general elections have come and gone, expressing delight that Abia State was one of the states where the Commission is proud to proclaim that elections went on smoothly. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the REC, such was the reason the court faulted the Commission in two cases out of about thirty two matters which were filed at the election petition tribunal. Iloh, however, reiterated the commission’s resolve in conducting free, fair and credible election in Nigeria and called on stakeholders to support the electoral umpire achieved it’s set goals. Speaking after receiving Certificate of Return, the winner and candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance Congress (APGA), for the just concluded Arochukwu state constituency seat rerun election, Hon. Mike Ukoha, thanked INEC for conducting a free, fair and credible election, stressing that with what they have done, it has further given hope to the common man that election in Nigeria can be conducted to reflect the wishes of the masses. He specifically commended the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Dr. Iloh for ensuring a hitch-free election in the two constituencies, and urged INEC staff never to relent in their assignment. The Minority Whip of Abia House of Assembly, equally lauded his Arochukwu constituents for electing him despite all odds, and promised to attract dividends of democracy to the area for the betterment of the people. On his part, Hon. Obinna Martins Ichita,the winner and also, the APGA candidate for Aba south state constituency seat rerun election, thanked the people of Aba South for re-electing him, noting that with what they have done, it has demonstrated their unwavering support for him, adding that he will always pursue goals and aspirations that will be in the interest of the people of Aba South. He, however, pledged his commitment to the development of the area. DAILY POST recalls that the Returning Officer for Arochukwu state constituency seat election, Prof. Austin Uwakwe, had announced that the APGA candidate, Hon. Mike Ukoha polled 6550 votes to defeat PDP candidate, Mr. Eric Ask Kalu, who scored 5129 votes. For Aba South state constituency seat rerun poll, APGA candidate, Obinna Ichita polled 4634 votes to defeat Hon. Clinton Ebere, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party,PDP, who polled 3154 votes.