Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA) and Legal Adviser, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the Edo and Ondo governorship elections coming up later in the year and how to improve on the nation’s electoral system. Excerpts: What do you think will be the shape of politics in Nigeria in 2020? Politics in Nigeria in the year 2020 will be more challenging than ever. The reason is that we have a lot of unaddressed issues which had hindered free, fair and credible elections so far. Another peculiar disturbing phenomenon is the fact that there is too much hunger in the land, and the current administration is not helping matters, with their policies which have become counterproductive. The direct effect of the current system has made it difficult for Nigerians to grapple with obnoxious undercurrents and settle down to do things the right ways. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states will take place this year. How do you think the election will go? The hue and cry over the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections, which were held in November 2019, were loud and definite. That should compel INEC and other relevant security agencies to do well by ensuring that there will not be a repeat of the ugly trend in the two states. A review of activities in the two states (Edo and Ondo) paints a picture of same context and contest. Edo and Ondo State have incumbent governors who are most likely to bear their party’s (APC) ticket for 2020 gubernatorial elections in both states. Barring any surprises, the two serving governors shall win their party primaries. But, its process may inflict some damages to their aspirations, as protest votes, the current conflicts between the godfathers in both states, the emerging strength of the main opposition (PDP) and flow or direction of voting by the electorates, will most likely undermine this two serving governors. However, the outcome shall depend ultimately on the performance of the security agencies and INEC Officials. What do you think the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should do about party registration and management of political parties? In 2020, INEC should stop further registration of new political parties. In fact, it should consider setting up of a committee that will draw up the procedure for merger among the existing political parties, to make future contests less cumbersome. Without any doubts, 80% of the registered parties are struggling to run their affairs due to lack of finances. Even the so-called small parties, including Action Alliance, share similar challenges in different ways. That is why competing with the big three, PDP, APC and APGA, has become our major setback. Their candidates have never been better than ours. But, their deep pockets and the fact that they have power in more states have put them in a vantage a position. The coalition strategy has also not paid off as the smaller parties are easily emasculated at the state levels. Despite our new found sagacity and administrative re-jigging propensity, we still could not really compete. What are your recommendations to INEC in this regard? INEC should help very active political organisations with some stipends, even if it is for the mobilisation of members, to implement their electioneering obligations. There should be a specific budget henceforth, to support the political parties market their manifestos, galvanise the electorates to participate fully in election programmes, sensitisation and voters education project by political parties, instead of the one INEC does, which is always very close to the elections. Political parties should be granted the right to be responsible for voter education as the electorates will be better off participating in the programme, to ensure that we attract more voters in the elections than we have had in the past due to voter apathy. INEC should endeavour to engage the political parties properly by using their structures to mobilise relevant stakeholders in our democracy for free and fair electioneering campaigns and the outcome of every poll. INEC should periodically review the programmes of each party to ensure that they function within the ambits of the law. This is very instructive because most of the political parties deliberately abandoned their constitutional roles and go about creating unnecessary infractions in their fold, thereby encouraging the springing up of illegal factions which do not do our polity any good. What is your advice on issue of party primaries and nomination of candidates? It is still a big surprise to us how the APC in Rivers and Zamfara State missed out in fielding candidates for the 2019 general elections. To avoid the events that lead to the disqualification of their candidates, we recommend the following; INEC should endeavour to educate and inform political parties on what should warrant or constitute a ground for disqualification of their candidate(s), in their usual stakeholders meetings. Political parties should ensure that they comply with these set rules to avoid unnecessary and avoidable disqualifications. Political parties should deal with the issues of infractions within their ranks to ensure that they are not disqualified due to avoidable misunderstanding/factional groups which are pushing or promoting negative agenda. The rules, when spelt out, should be adhered to. If any party member defaults, the person should be shown the way out. When more than one person is involved in a thing, it calls for the restraint of their best interest. INEC should delegate relevant personnel of theirs to participate in the primaries of each political party, and come up with a position that will be clear to all to ensure that there are compliances to the rules of the primaries. INEC may wish to review party primaries schedule to ensure that it is not at cross purpose with INEC’s procedures for party primaries. That is to say, every directives of INEC concerning party primaries must be adhered to by all the parties, except on issues of the number of party members who should nominate each aspirant, amount of money to be charged for each office being contested and the choice of venue for the party primaries. In all effects, INEC should regulate the activities of each party as it relates to who emerges from each party to contest any election. Nomination of candidates as suggested by INEC in the previous elections should be adopted, because there are not ambiguities in it. What is your view on political campaign and party finance? This is a hard nut to crack. Our elections have become highest bidders’ affair. That is the reason for electing the less preferred candidates. Political campaign funding cannot be properly supervised without strict surveillance on the spending process of each candidate and it can only be made right with sound legislation. If you mirror on the account of a particular aspirant, certain fiduciaries or proxies might be used to sponsor some aspects of the campaign through their own accounts. So, here are my recommendations. The National Assembly should pass a law that there shall be a certain amount not to be exceeded by each aspirant during elections; failure will lead to a disqualification. There shall be campaign and election funding project account, nominated by the aspirant, and disclosed to a monitoring committee, which should include the bankers, agents of the other aspirants/political parties, representatives of the NIFU/INEC, to ensure proper monitoring. Each political party should have an internal mechanism to ensure compliance to these rules when it is in place. As for party financing, INEC should endeavour to accommodate the sponsorship of some aspects of political parties’ activities. This should be in the budget they submit to the government yearly. They should ensure that the political parties with higher elective positions should be remunerated more than those with less. What would you suggest on accreditation and role of political agents? All the representatives of the political parties are important in the election days’ activities. Therefore, no party should be treated better than the rest. The party agents must support and assist INEC Ad Hoc staff in carrying out their legitimate duties on the day of election. There shouldn’t be same bed, different dreams syndrome. Political party agents should be made to understand the importance of synergy among their colleagues from the other parties, and as such, cooperation is required to deliver a credible result from their polling unit. Obviously, if every polling station delivers a trouble free centre, then, we would have had a trouble-free election throughout the federation. The political party agents are therefore expected to do the following: Liaise with INEC officials, and ensure that there is timely/proper accreditation of the electorates in their centre(s), as stipulated by INEC. They should observe the process and ensure that everything is going as scheduled. If there are any misgivings or threat to the integrity of the election, they should complain to the appropriate personnel, and not to alert their political party members in the crowd, who may misunderstand the signal and give a false report to other members, and civil disquietness will ensue. During accreditation, depending on the rule being adopted, assuming we are still using the Card Reader, it will be time saving, to move ahead to record the number of voters who are indeed present at the time, as stipulated by INEC. No matter who the electorate maybe, if they come late, they shouldn’t be attended to. Every party agent should also take note of the number of accredited people, and if another number is issued at the time of reading out the result, then the result must be cancelled in that unit. If the INEC personnel are seen to be playing games, the very officials should be handed over to the police, because people’s votes must count. Political party agents must demand for a copy of the result when all the details are filled into the result sheet. Same should be delivered to their various party offices for reference purposes. Authentication and authorship of election results must be done by political party agents in each polling units to avoid wrong entries and returns of votes. If political agents must include the returning officers, who declare the results, then it will be expedient to suggest that INEC leaves our university professors who cannot handle simple calculations out of the project next time. It is becoming quite embarrassing that most of these people cannot even add figures without making elementary mistakes. It does not have to be them, use other credible professionals. What do you think should be done about disruption of election process and safety of electoral personnel? If an undertaking is understandable, the outcome will always be outstanding. In saying this, I want to ask: Why should soldiers be involved in an election activity? Elections in advanced democracies world over, is a civil matter and not a war (do or die) affair. The idea of militarising our elections is what has given so many contestants the reason to seek extra means of securing their votes. In turn, election personnel’s lives are put at risk. My recommendations are: As we all are aware that elections in a democracy are civil matter and a panacea for peace, progress and comfort when efficiently coordinated, it is therefore our averred position that henceforth, the services of Civil Defence Corps, police and other paramilitary agencies should be used to provide security at our polling stations, while the military is kept out of it completely. They should conduct stand and search on everyone who has come to cast their votes before accreditation, and if anyone is found with dangerous weapon, the person should be arrested by the operatives at the venue and detained. Proper recruitment exercise must be put in place while employing election personnel to ensure that the officials are properly trained to show compliance to the set guidelines, to relegate all possibilities of sharp practices, which may infuriate suspecting supporters of the other candidates. A venue should be protected to the extent that it is able to stay free from any crisis. If security agents and election officers are able to detect early warning signal before it constitutes real danger, the actors should endeavor/ensure to be fair to all the accredited voters and accord all the contestants level playing ground, in order not to encourage any suspicions. Counting of votes must be done transparently, and the confirmed/declared results should be recorded accordingly on the result sheet, from the polling units to Ward/LGA/State/National Collation Centres, respectively. When the election materials do not arrive early and accreditation of voters are done shabbily, there is bound to be some resistance from concerned groups. So, to avoid this scenario, it is our suggestion that election materials should be made to arrive at least 24 hours at the INEC local government offices throughout the federation. Transparency is the key word. It is advisable that INEC conducts its affairs transparently to extricate the commission from certain insinuations that may trigger some kinds of reprisal attacks on it. It is not possible that every stakeholder in the political system shall accept all that the commission may present, but, when you take up the position that ‘You are for no one, but indeed for everyone’, then it will be impossible for any plot hatched against you and your staff in any part of the country to work. The execution and implementation of the new Electoral Act must be encouraged to relieve the commission of the burden imposed on it by the non-execution of the Electoral Act. While we commend INEC for standing by some of its rules which leads to the disqualification of the APC candidates from two states in the 2019 general elections, this is the first time from any leadership of the commission though, we want to suggest that subsequently, you need to brief all the parties adequately on these rules to ensure that this same thing do not happen again in the future electoral activities. However, INEC should remain consistent with their guidelines when it is released to avoid the kind of confusion that the denial of the use of server is generating at the moment. In one of your statements before the Governorship and States House of Assembly elections, you said, ‘The use of the Smart Card Reader is not only mandatory, but its deliberate non-use attracts the sanction of possible prosecution of erring officials in accordance with the INEC Regulations and Guideline for the conduct of elections. This is in addition to the voiding of any results emanating from such units or area as was done in the Presidential and National Assembly elections of February 23, 2019’. This is credited to Barrister Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner. Polling Units must be published to the public early enough to forestall claims of non-participation of some political parties that are not aware of the existence of such centers and the disenfranchisement of voters from that area. Undue manipulation of the electoral process should be addressed forthwith to ensure the following: Security agencies do not militarise our elections in order not to undermine the wish of the people; Election materials should not be mismanaged and the delivery must be timely. Elimination of any form of compromise and non-involvement of candidates in the printing and production of election materials in an election they are directly involved in. Card Readers should be utilised for its purpose. Accreditation and collation should be transparent. Arbitrary arrest and detention of perceived opponents by security operative; Massive thumb-printing of election ballot papers. It is the earnest desire of our party the Action Alliance, to cooperate with INEC and other stakeholders in 2020 to move us out of this stage of mere civil rule to the true practice of democracy in Nigeria. As a party, we affirm democracy and its values, not because the world demands it of us, but because it is good for us. We shall continue to promote advocacies and values that will engender sound democratic practice that accommodate and deliver, respect from and to different arms of government, true independence of the tiers of government, respect of the rule of law and adherence to the principles true federalism, we hereby declare our support to INEC as they embrace the reforms that will position the commission to become a truly independent election umpire for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We look forward to a more direct approach by stakeholders in our democratic system in 2020, to harmonise our aspiration and practice of real democracy in Nigeria.