Mr. Babatunde Irukera, Director General/Chief Executive Officer, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, sheds  more light on the efforts of the Council to protect consumer rights through several initiatives, challenges and lots more. Excerpts: From observations, it appears people are beginning to be aware of their rights in market places, what factors can you ascribe to this lauding development in the consumer protection sector? It shows that people are far keener, more aware of the organisation; people have become more aware of their rights and insisting more but there is still more that we need to do. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Periodically different consumer protection efforts by associations come up to do sentiment analysis by themselves, consumer advocacy, and reporting what is going on, so they would ask the agency to partner with them, support them and provide a platform for them. We collaborated with COLLA to do consumer education and to support their own platform, harvesting complaints and channeling it to companies. And that question would link with the first to the last.  How do we work with consumer protection? That is one of them. We work mostly with CAFON. ORLA is another one, and a week ago, another one was getting launched on ‘customer experience’. We also have a register of consumer’s protection association that we meet with periodically and provide information to and just engage and support. The new law actually creates a statutory guideline for consumer protection associations on how they can even operate.  As much as other associations that are looking in that direction we would work with them. We met with professional association at federal levels and say, this is your role.  Within the role are the areas where we can collaborate to make sure that we are protecting consumers; whether it is road transport union, lawyers associations or surveyors association across the board. So we are engaging from the grassroots then from the constituency stand. Who holds government accountable for dereliction in consumer protection? The government has seven structures of its own. One is SELICOM. A newer and extremely effective structure is PELCOM. You see that they have gained so much worth that ease of doing business has gone up. They are working closely with customs, immigrations, airport passage, visa, and all of those things. So government creates a system to try and improve governance itself but a consumer protection authority by itself is not going to, so to say. The role of consumer’s protection by law cut across diverse sectors of the economy. Even in oil exploration and marketing. If you go to NNPC filling station, and they sell ten instead of twenty litres that was ordered for, we will get them and hold government accountable as an operator. If your airport experience turns out to be violation of the consumer rights we will hold them accountable. The nature of the mandate is such that our jurisdiction requires us to hold you accountable.  So that is what it is! I understand the feeling of the people when the government doesn’t treat them right. Just imagine saying we are the consumer of judicial services. So, we go and report the court to consumer protection authority.  That is not practical.  As a matter of fact the court by itself is supposed to be regulators of the consumer protection. If you complain to me that you bought something from a company and it is not working well and the company insists that it is working well, if I make a finding and you displease me, you will go to my regulator and that is the court or if they find that the company is displeasing they can have my decision reviewed by going to court. So, you see that the court is our regulator, so those institutions needs to improve to fulfill their mandate; though that is not the question but the framework. The governance framework will not be the consumer’s protection authority beginning to take jurisdiction over their regulation. Do we have provision for Whistle blowers? We can’t have the knowledge of what is going on everywhere, so we have business intelligence operators where we receive information; most of the issues we know are because we got credible intelligence. We check the intelligence; if it is credible then we proceed and do our work. Under the new law, there is what is called leniency programme, and what the law does is that when two companies engage in competitive issue, one can come in quickly and say, I have done wrong. I did it to this person and that person will be admitted into our leniency programme where they will be treated more leniently. The information they give will be sufficient for us to hold the other person accountable. What happened with FCCPC’s case with DSTV? What happened with DSTV wasn’t even our own order; nobody knew what our orders were. There was a lot of news on DSTV. Court Order is not to regulate price. DSTV preempted investigations and acted in bad faith by agreeing to a Consent Order to hold terms and conditions in 24 months, but increased prices on the eve of signing Consent Order to undermine regulatory process. The report was that DSTV did not do what it is supposed to do in line with the Consent Order. In fact, before we signed that mutually agreed order they did one of the things they were not supposed to do so we went to court and asked the court to stop them. So what DSTV didn’t comply with was of much concern to the court, and there is no way an administrative authority would have stronger enforcement powers than a judicial authority and so they violated the order of the court. However, the process is ongoing. How has it been as to your business relationship with the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC)? We’ve been working with the commission, and there has not been any disagreement between us. Recently we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the commission to foster a mutually beneficial engagement and seamless operation of the mandates between us. With the MoU, we have agreed to cooperate and collaborate to perform our individual duties, particularly in information sharing, consumer complaints in the capital market, investigations, enforcement and compliance, including capacity building. This is also in compliance with Section 105 of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act (FCCPA) 2018, signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, on January 30, 2019, which requires us to negotiate MoUs with relevant regulators. Recall that on May 3, 2019, FCCPC and SEC established a joint review desk, as an interim measures to ensure continued processing of pending and emerging transactions. What are the challenges being faced by you and your team at FCCPC in the course of carrying out your collective mandates? The greatest challenge is getting the populace to know they have rights, and that of the industry recognising the fact that they must take the regulator very seriously and respect the right of consumers. That second part is changing as the industry is becoming very soft, sensitive and versatile. This is because they are beginning to see that there is an enforcement mechanism and a bunch of people who will resist. We are poised to prioritise these rights in not too distant time.  We have couple of years and we are burning the candle at both ends trying to get this result. How is FCCPC’s relationship with members of the press? The relationship FCCPC has with the media has been cordial. We understand the reality of the benefits of news, particularly as it is for the people who want to listen or read the news. It is not for the people in the news. The people in the news are doing something that is newsworthy, and that is what we are doing at FCCPC; so for us in FCCPC, our focus is to ensure that people, our targets, are carried along with our day-to-day activities. The reason why the media is our important partner, and still remains an important partner to us is that it is an influencer. When we talk about influencers, we are typically talking about people that are active on social media, public opinion and all of that. It is enough to say that the secret of influencing, the origin of influencing framework is the media. So partnership with the media for me is because you are influencers, I had three objectives; One: to ensure a vibrant consumer space, where the consumer are very discriminatory very demanding and insistent on their right from those who provide goods and services and even from those who regulate those goods and services. You know that the best mechanism for respect of right is demand for right, insistent and enforcement. It doesn’t matter if you are a media lawyer, if you don’t have plaintiffs there will be no defendant. If you think about many people who don’t want to end up in court, you won’t hear them say there are many lawyers in Nigeria; you hear “I don’t want anyone to sue me”. Is it not what we hear; “I don’t want to end up in court” and so the theory and frame work for right enforcement lies in people who demand and insist on their rights. It is about making sure we improve the space not making sure people sees our face so that is why I said, it doesn’t matter if our correspondent whose beat is to report do what they can will end up in one small corner of the business or somewhere in the middle of the paper. So, this engagement is to say, look let’s understand our mutual role. Everywhere in the world where rights are respected, the regulators are least recognized. How many people know of the consumer protection authority in the United States? Because that is a place where people`s right are most articulated, and not only that, influencers, civil society, consumers protection gets in the space. FCCPC has been functioning for quite a while now. What is your take on people’s awareness and perception about it? The regulators are very important for the government free work, but for the moment by moment activity, the citizens combine action is necessary. The easiest example to give you, do you know that today there are more people dissatisfied with ICPC`s resolving complaints than there were in 2016? I get test every day and people complains this hasn’t been done and all that. Recently a professional body was posted on Facebook, ’don’t waste your time going there that is a useless organization’ so imagine that. We are doing more, at the same time, people are preparing on how well and how quickly they are resolving your complaints. A good number of people have said we didn’t even know there was CPC, we didn’t even know that but now we know. So you see that, you have the knowledge and you are doing more, you are achieving more and at the same time you are achieving less. So ,the past year was a busy year where we had up to a thousand complaints.  Right now, it is just a busy week where we get complaints. Look at that scale from what we do annually to what we do in a fifty second fraction; there are more complaints and more unresolved complaints. Even if we are told to go and recruit 3000 employees, the complaints will still go on. So it is not going to be the regulator who ultimately takes us over the line, what the regulator will do is to move the middle, it the kind of work you do and the partnership with you that would ultimately move this line. So, when we talk about Nigeria, it is almost abstract. It is the people, and until they are fully and truly regarded, our mission is still in a very early stage of work in progress. So, understand that when you are covering you can still call, even though it a press release I will counsel you. I frown on the language press release because many don’t go through them. So, what you get to see and hear as the media partner is only a fraction of what we do every day, the share number of problem that arise where we say let resolve this with you Mr. regulator. Finally, your works keeps us, all of us as regulators; it keeps us on our toes. At what instance does a consumer lose his or her own right? Well, I don’t think a consumer ever loses his or her rights. At every step of the way, the consumer right is the consumer right. Whatever grievances or dissatisfaction a consumer experiences in the transaction between that consumer and the goods or service provider, it creates a right in that consumer. However, if the goods or service provider has provided everything, respected the consumer and provided exactly what that consumer asked for in the right specification and the right quality, and the consumer becomes dissatisfied for some other reason which is external, let’s say, a consumer wanted a black car and he or she is supplied a black car to the exact specification and the black car is not malfunctioning but after a few months the consumer decided that he or she prefers a red car then, there is really no violation of rights by the service or goods provider. But when that is not the case, then every step of the way we will take on every complaint and we will seek to resolve it. There are still people out there who do not know how accessible the FCCPC to the consumer. How accessible is the Council to the consumers? Well, the Council is very accessible to the public. But I agree with you that there are still many people who do not know. Right now, we receive complaints on multiple channels, we have hotlines where people can call in and we also harvest complaints from Twitter and Facebook. We are expanding those channels now. And when these complaints come to us, the process won’t just end with us, we will immediately share those complaints with companies that are the target of the complaints so that they can quickly step in. It is only when they don’t resolve, like I said, that we would proceed to resolve. At the end of the day, what legacy would you want to leave behind in FCCPC? Well, the legacy I would like to leave behind is much less about the institution but much more about the market. What I would like is that we should have fewer complaints in the CPC not because the capacity can’t carry the complaints, but because we have been able to really move the reform to the market place. We would like a market place where consumers know their rights much better and they demand these rights, one where the goods and service providers respect those rights more and the quality of both the service and the goods has improved to a significant level, comparable to even the most sophisticated environment. I want the Nigerian consumers to understand that this whole thing is about rights and that consumers have rights. When people provide service or goods to you, they are not doing you a favour. Ensuring your satisfaction within reasonable and acceptable parameters is a matter of your right, insist on it.