Zainab Ahmed, Minister for Finance, Budget and National Planning, said on Thursday that the commencement of the implementation of the new Value Added Tax (VAT) is to take effect from February 1, 2020. Ahmed said the increase of the VAT from 5% to 7.5% will come into force after all the necessary administrative procedures have been completed, especially the gazette of the Act by the Federal Ministry of Justice. In a statement by Yunusa Tanko Abdullahi, Special Adviser, Media and Communication to the Minister for Finance, Budget and National Planning, she said once a bill is signed into law, it takes effect immediately but it is to note that there are certain administrative procedures and formalities to be finalised before commencement. It would be recalled that the VAT increase which is meant to help the Federal Government achieve its revenue projections for the 2020 budget (N8.155 trillion) is a part of the tax reforms included in the 2019 Finance Act. With the Act, there will be more revenue to finance key government projects especially in the areas of health, education and critical infrastructure. Among the Finance Act strategic objectives is the supporting of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in line with the ease of doing business reforms such as VAT threshold. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, had earlier said that: “We planned that, going forward, the annual budget will always be accompanied by Finance Bills to enable the realisation of revenue projections. “Future Finance Bills will therefore also provide us with additional opportunities to incrementally improve the fiscal policy and regulatory/legal environment in order to further strengthen our domestic capital market, and ultimately ensure sustained and inclusive growth and development.” The statement also recalls that the Finance Act also takes care of essential palliatives to support MSMEs and mitigate the impact of the VAT rate increase on the most vulnerable businesses, communities and citizens in the economy. Some of these measures include: expanding the list of VAT-exempt items (e.g. basic food items, educational materials and medical supplies); introducing a VAT registration threshold for MSMEs with a turnover of less than N25 million per annum; reducing the corporate tax rate for MSMEs from 30 percent to 20 percent for small firms (with turnover of between N25 million and N100 million per annum.); and exempting micro-firms (with turnover of less than N25 million per annum) from payment of CIT.