BENIN – The family of the Enogie (Duke) of Ukhiri, HRH. (Bar) Godwin Aigbe, has appealed to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Muhammed Adamu for his quick intervention into alleged plot to foil investigation into a vicious attack on Aigbe. The family said the attack has left him in semi-consciousness since December last year with the alleged release of suspects of the attack. In an open letter to the police boss, wife of the Duke, Barr (Mrs.) Stella Aigbe, called for proper investigation to be carried out “in a case of an attempted murder/assassination of my husband, HRH (Barr.) Godwin Aigbe, the Enogie of Ukhiri and also a case of arson, armed robbery and malicious damage.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She said the Edo State police command was investigating the matter and some arrest had been made and her husband’s handset recovered from the suspects whom she said further gave a confessional statement of how they were involved in the attack on her husband. She said she was in shocked that “other culprits now at large with the fear of being arrested ran to Abuja and brought the I.G. Monitoring unit who took over the case file from Edo State Police Command leading to the release of the suspects who were detained on court order.” Also a letter from the chamber of Pius T. Osazee to the IG on the same matter said they were shocked by the attitude of the policemen from the IG Monitoring Unit as “There is no justification whatsoever in their action in ordering the Edo State Police Command headquarters, Benin City, who were on top of the matter and yet investigation relating to the case has not been concluded and they are ordering the immediate transfer of the entire case file to their office in Abuja with those suspects the court has already remanded in police custody.” But when contacted, the Commissioner of Police, Lawal Jimeta, said no suspect had been released by the police but that he was aware that there is a team from Abuja who were in the state over the incident. It would be recalled that Aigbe was attacked in December last year by suspected hoodlums. Pictures of Aigbe showed several machete cuts, signs of several piercings in one of his eyes and signs of injuries in his ear said to be from gunshots. Several other persons were reported injured in the attack.