LAGOS – The Athletics Federation of Nigeria has promised that the country would win medal at this year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo. It plans to achieve this set target by keying into the Adopt-an -Athlete model recently introduced by Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, by providing administrative and technical capacity that athletes needed to succeed at the Games. The federation’s Acting President, Olamide George, in a statement signed by its Head of Media, Dare Esan, said that the support from the Sports Ministry in the form of Adopt-an-Athlete programme would boost the country’s chances of winning medals in Tokyo. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “What we lacked in the past was the administrative and technical capacity to help the athletes. This we now have with the huge support from the Ministry of Sports. “We are lucky to have a Sports Minister who understands the business of sports and what is required for its development. The adoption programme has been the best thing that has happened to our athletes in the last 20 years. Now the athletes will not be talking about lack of support from Nigeria. What the federation will add is the administrative and technical management of the athletes. “We intend to open our final camp for the Games in Europe sometimes in May where athletes will converge for training and for competition. None of our relay teams has made the standard for the Games and this is why we are discussing with an international meet promoter and manager who will get a good training camp in central Europe and meets for our athletes, especially the relay teams to compete towards securing qualification for the Ga mes.” George also promised to ensure the grassroots development of track and field noting that the country was blessed with talents but has failed in unearthing these talents. “Nigeria is blessed with talents waiting to be unearthed and nurtured to greatness. What the AFN will be providing henceforth is the administrative and technical leadership to make sure we discover and nurture more talents into limelight as well as make our elite athletes perform at their optimal best,” George said. He said that the federation’s programme was not limited to the Olympics, adding, “We have plans to make the Golden League very attractive. We are going to partner with corporate organisations, individuals and state governments in the development of the sport from the grassroots level. We will also organise seminars and workshops for our coaches and technical officials as well as games masters at secondary school level. Our programme for the year will capture all of these and more.” He also promised to reorganize the federation, saying that he was committed to an open, transparent and efficient management of track and field in the New Year and beyond. He said that he has learnt from the mistakes made since the board was inaugurated and would put all supporting structures in place to ensure a proper and sustainable growth for the sport. “The era of square pegs finding unmerited home in round holes is over. The AFN will be governed by its constitution and international best practices. It was the total disregard for this that made us objects of international ridicule right from the Commonwealth Games in the Gold Coast, Australia in 2018 where we ran foul of an international freeze on change of allegiance to the embarrassment in Doha at the World Championships, when Blessing Okagbare and Divine Oduduru were initially disqualified from the championships just because somebody failed to discharge his responsibility,” said George. “Never again will this happen where Nigeria will be stripped of medals won by her athletes at international championships/Games because those saddled with the responsibilities to ensure proper things are done displayed uncommon incompetence. We all saw how Oyesade Olatoye was stripped of her Shot Put gold and Hammer throw bronze medals after the African Games in Rabat when a clear one month or so to her event, the IAAF (now World Athletics) notified the AFN of the girl’s ineligibility. What was painful then was that we still had time to get the Nationality Review Panel of World Athletics to reverse the decision. But like we have noticed time and time again, you cannot give what you don’t have,” George added.