BENIN – The unabated crisis between the feuding factions of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) took a dangerous twist on Thursday evening as a top member of the party, Mr. Henry Idahagbon narrowly escaped death as gunmen suspected to be hired assassins attacked him in his office. Idahagbon, a top member of the Oshiomhole’s faction of the APC and former Edo State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice while speaking to newsmen said that the gunmen who came in three vehicles fired several shots at his office located on Siluko Road, near the popular Oliha Market. The office was pockmarked with bullets while shattered windowpanes littered the premises of the building where the ex-Egor local government area chairman law chambers are located. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said he was in his office, attending to his clients when he was jolted by the volley of bullet shots which were aimed at his office, sited on the mid-floor of the three-storey building. Idahagbon who has since gone underground said that he quickly dashed for the back exit, through which he escaped, even as the fire was still going on, adding that miraculously nobody was injured. He lamented: “I was in my office, attending to some clients when I heard the echoes of gunshots directed at my office. I immediately ran out. Thank God, nobody was injured. The windows were shattered while the building is pockmarked with bullets. I have reported the matter to the police.” In panic, some neighbours who heard the volley of the shots, apparently from pump action rifles ran out of their shops, unlocked and fled for fear of being hit by stray bullets. He said that he immediately reported the incident to the nearby Oba Market Police station where a team of policemen were drafted to assess the extent of damage. Speaking on his mobile phone, the Edo State Police spokesman, Mr. Chidi Nwanbuzor said that he was not aware of the incident, adding: “I am not aware of any shooting. I am just hearing of it from you for the first time.”