Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday advised agents of the Buhari presidency not to attempt to politicise or trivialise demands by Nigerians for the resignation of its government as a response to its evident failure to guarantee security of lives and property in the country. Warning the presidency to perish any thoughts of harassment, setup, frame-up or victimisation of Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, the party added that the Buhari presidency must accept this apolitical verdict, which transcends ethnic, political and religious boundaries, especially after President Muhammadu Buhari admitted failure by expressing “surprise” at the level of insecurity across the nation under his watch.  PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that the fact that the presidency resorted to hauling insults, hate language and threats against patriotic Nigerians, including senators, instead of addressing issues of security before the parliament, shows that indeed the Buhari presidency has no answer to the litany of insecurity issues under its administration. “It is instructive for the Buhari presidency to note that the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, whose voice resonated in the chamber of the Senate, spoke the mind of majority of Nigerians who had become bullied, harassed and despondent in the face of escalated insurgency, bloodletting, killings and other acts of violence that have pervaded our nation.  “Senator Abaribe spoke on behalf of millions of Nigerians who have been killed, orphaned, widowed, maimed, rendered childless and homeless, as well as others who daily live in anguish, pain and fear in the face of worsening insecurity under the failed Buhari administration. “On account of this, the PDP counsels agents of the Buhari presidency to perish any thoughts of harassment, setup, frame-up or victimisation of Senator Abaribe who rose to the occasion through the constitutionally guaranteed privilege of the parliament to speak on behalf of ordinary Nigerians,” it said.  The PDP recalls that when President Buhari, in 2013, unjustifiably called for the resignation of then President Goodluck Jonathan, the Jonathan presidency never resorted to insults and threats, even when such a call was completely unfounded, unlike in the present situation where every indicator points to an alarming trajectory towards a failed state. The PDP, therefore, urged the National Assembly to stand with Nigerians and resist every attempt that will make it succumb to any form of harassments, intimidations and innuendos from paid agents and cabal in the presidency who have shown that the interest of ordinary Nigerians is not their priority.  Meanwhile, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has replied President Buhari’s spokesman, Shehu Garba, for saying Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe should be in prison for standing as surety to Nnamdi Kanu and calling for Buhari to resign over growing insecurity.  CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere said, “Does Garba Shehu not know that President Muhammadu Buhari should have been in prison for life or faced death penalty for the treasonable act of overthrowing the democratically elected government of Shehu Shagari in 1984? “Mallam Garba Shehu should not let the peanuts he collects for defending an incompetent regime make him speak like road side tout, all brawn and no brain. “In case Garba Shehu has forgotten, the primary responsibility of government is the protection of lives and property, a simple task his paymasters legendary incompetence cannot allow him achieve. Since he does not have conscience, we advise him not to let those whose relatives are murdered every second take his case to their God.  “Mallam Garba Shehu, let your paymasters secure the lives of Nigerians or get out.”