LOKOJA – Piqued by the public outcry over under performance of the SCOA Motors, the contractor handling Itobe- Ajaokuta -Okene highway in Kogi State, the Federal Government has revoked the contract, which will be re-awarded to a more competent contractor. This was disclosed on Friday by the Federal Controller of Works in Kogi State, Engr. Olatunde Kajogbola, while conducting an on-the-spot assessment of the Itobe Bridge, which was said to be suffering from structural defects. Kajogbola said the Federal Government was displeased with the slow pace of work by the contractor even after he was adequately mobilsed for the project. He decried the actions of the contractor, which had shown little competence in handling the work, pointing out that the Federal Government, in response to cries of commuters, had no option than to re-award it to a more competent company. The controller explained that the contract to reconstruct the 60km highway was signed in 2015, but lamented that after five years, no substantial work was done, which necessitated the cancelation of the contract. He allayed fears of the members of the public on the alleged structural defects of the Itobe Bridge, saying the only problem the bridge had was the vandalisation of the electrometric rubbers covering the expansion joints. Kojogbola added that the bridge was designed to absorb vibration and that the trending video of its collapse was borne out of ignorance. He stressed that the bridge, in its presence form, can last for 100 years. He, however, said the Federal Government was aware of the situation, which had been captured in the 2020 budget, even as contractors would be moved to the bridge for quick fixes. He disclosed that the team of engineers from the Department of Bridges has been deployed from the headquarters to do routine assessment, even as he called for calm as necessary steps were being taken to address the situation. He lamented the attitude of some unscrupulous citizens who take delight in vandalising government properties. According to him, efforts of the government to replace the covers of the expansion joints were being thwarted by criminals, who after replacement immediately remove them.