Lagos – The International Air Transport Association’s (IATA) statistics has revealed that African carriers posted 19.8 per cent growth in air freight market in November 2019, compared to the same period a year earlier, but the global market witnessed decrease by 1.1 per cent within the period. IATA said that the continent’s strong trade and investment links with Asia contributed to the positive performance within the period, adding that capacity grew 13.7 per cent year-on-year. According to IATA, Africa’s performance was the fastest growth of any region in November 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Besides, the data released for global air freight markets indicated that demand, measured in freight tonne kilometers (FTKs), decreased by 1.1 per cent in November 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. IATA said this marked the 13th consecutive month of year-on-year declines in freight volumes. Despite the decline in demand, however, November’s performance was the best in eight months, with the slowest year-on-year rate of contraction recorded since March 2019. In part, November’s outcome reflects the growing importance of large e-commerce events such as Singles Day in Asia and Black Friday. While international e-commerce continues to grow, overall air cargo demand continues to face headwinds from the effects of the trade war between the US and China, the deterioration in world trade, and a broad-based slowing in global economic growth. “Demand for air cargo in November was down 1.1 per cent compared to the previous year. That’s better than the 3.5 per cent decline posted in October. But, it is a big disappointment considering that the fourth quarter is usually air cargo’s peak season. Looking forward, signs of a thawing in US-China trade tensions are good news. But, trading conditions at present remain very challenging,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director-General. Freight capacity, measured in available freight tonne kilometers (AFTKs), rose by 2.9 per cent year-on-year in November 2019. Capacity growth has now outstripped demand growth for 19 consecutive months. Airlines in Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East suffered sharp declines in year-on-year growth in total air freight volumes in November 2019, while North American carriers experienced a more moderate decline. Europe and Africa were the only regions to record growth in air freight demand compared to November 2018. Asia-Pacific airlines saw demand for air freight contract by 3.7 per cent in November 2019, compared to the year-earlier period. This was the sharpest drop in freight demand of any region for the month. Capacity increased by 1.8 per cent. The US-China trade war has significantly affected the region, with demand on the large Asia-North America market down 6.5 per cent year-on-year in October. However, the thawing of US-China trade relations and robust economic growth in key regional economies are positive developments. European airlines posted a 2.6 per cent increase in freight demand in November 2019 compared to the same period a year earlier. Better than expected economic activity in the third quarter in some of the region’s large economies helped support demand. Capacity increased by 4 per cent year-on-year.