Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Have you ever imagined a world without humility? That world must be worst than hellfire! Do you know that humility is the greatest attribute anyone can acquire? Do you know that humility is the surest path to greatness? Do you know that most of the great people in our world today are those who went through the college of humility? Do you even know that you are destined for greatness? Without humility there will be no greatness! In today’s first reading the Author of Sirach 3:17-18 declares, “My child, be humble in everything you do, and people will appreciate it more than gifts. 18 The greater you become, the more humble you should be; then the Lord will be pleased with you.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Humility is the best we can offer to our world. It is the most pleasant virtue on earth. Humility attracts the blessing and approval of the Most High God. Our world is in a mess because people have refused to humble themselves. Ask yourself, how many people are following the path of humility! How many are ready to let go and how many are willing to serve and not to be served? Unfortunately, most people have fallen because they preferred the path of pride and instead of humility. Yet, humility remains the only path to greatness. Nothing is as important as humility. Maulana W. Khan defines Humility as “the greatest quality that a man can have, and arrogance is undoubtedly the worst.” With humility your greatness is guaranteed. You may have nothing but with humility you can possess all. People will approach you and even admire you, not because of your wealth but because of your humility. Humility is the highest honour we can give to God. According to the book of Sirach 3:20” , the Lord’s power is great, and He is honored by those who are humble.” God is honoured not only when we are in the Church but when we are in our humble state. No wonder the Psalmist declares, “My sacrifice is a humble spirit, O God; you will not reject a humble and repentant heart.” (Psalm 51:17). Honour God with your humility! Humility is the only path that makes greatness possible and attainable. It is the channel of human greatness and the only ladder to heaven. Rabindranath Tagore declares: “We come nearest to the great when we are great in humility.” A humble man is a great man and great man is one who is rich in humility. Our God is the God of Humility. He is the most Humble Being the world has ever known. God expressed His humility through His Son our Lord Jesus Christ “who, being in the form of God, did not count equality with God… 8 And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself and became obedient to the point of death… 9 Therefore God also has highly exalted Him and given Him the name which is above every name, 10 that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow… 11 and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. (Philippians 2:6-10). Our Lord Jesus Christ gained divine exaltation through humility. Humility was the channel of His glorification. In today’s gospel reading from Luke 14:8-11 Jesus taught his disciples the secret of humility. He said: “When you are invited by anyone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in the best place, lest one more honorable than you be invited; 9 and he who invited you come and say to you, ‘Give place to this man,’ and then you begin with shame to take the lowest place. 10 But when you are invited, go and sit down in the lowest place, so that when he who invited you comes he may say to you, ‘Friend, go up higher.’ Then you will have glory in the presence of those who sit at the table with you. 11 For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.” Humility is indeed the path to divine exaltation. As you humble yourself God must surely exalt you! Our Lord Jesus Christ did not just teach his followers the importance of humility He actually showed them the path to humility. As they were celebrating the Last Supper Jesus   took a towel and girded Himself. “He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet… when He had washed their feet, He said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you? 13 You call Me Teacher and Lord, and you say well, for so I am. 14 If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet.  15 For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you.” This is the most inspiring action on earth. Jesus was the first leader to wash the feet of his disciples. He taught them not just by words but also by example. St. Augustine of Hippo presents humility as a transformation force: “It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that makes men as angels.” If I may add, pride breads sinners whereas humility produces saints. Humility has the ability to transform the worst sinner into the best saint. A saint is a humble wise being, while a sinner is an arrogant fool. Saints humble themselves while sinners are full of themselves. Humility is the force that controls our ego. It enables us to distance ourselves from ourselves. We are always tempted to think about ourselves. In most cases, we are so preoccupied with ourselves that we hardly recognize the existence of others. But according to C.S. Lewis, “True humility is not thinking less of yourself; it is thinking of yourself less.” If we truly want to be humble then we must always consider others to be as important and as precious as we are. We must not look down on anyone unless we are admiring their shoes. The most humble person is one who considers others to be better than self. The Holy Father, Pope Francis, sees humiliation as the path to humility. As King David was humiliated on several occasions even by his own son we all must pass through the painful path of humiliation before we get to our desired destiny. Humility brings out the best in us. It defines us. Thomas Merton once declares, “Pride makes us artificial and humility makes us real.” The real ones are the humble ones. If you want to be real in this artificial world then you must be humble. According to Saint Vincent de Paul,  “Humility is nothing but truth, and pride is nothing but lying.” False humility is therefore pride is disguise! Mother Teresa of Calcutta offers some steps to humility. “These are the few ways we can practice humility: To speak as little as possible of one’s self. To mind one’s own business ; not to want to manage other people’s affairs, to avoid curiosity, and to accept contradictions and correction cheerfully, to pass over the mistakes of others. “To accept insults and injuries, you must accept being slighted, forgotten and disliked. To be kind and gentle even under provocation. Never to stand on one’s dignity. To choose always the hardest.” Colin Powell added, “Avoid having your ego so close to your position that when your position falls, your ego goes with it.” In his first epistle, St. Peter concludes, “Be submissive to one another, and be clothed with humility, for “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” 6 Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time, 7 casting all your care upon Him, for He cares for you.” (1 Peter 5:6-7). Child of God, as you cloth yourself with humility, God will surely exalt you. He will make you great. He will bless you abundantly and it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!