Chief Segun Ajibulu, is a pro-democracy activist and former Commissioner Pension Commission in Ekiti .In this interview with YAQOUB POPOOLA , he speaks on controversial Operation Amotekun and other sundry issues .Excerpts: What is your take on the controversy surrounding the establishment of joint security network in south west geo political zone code-named Operation Amotekun? Let me use this opportunity to congratulate our governors in the South West for braving the odds and coming up with this bold initiative. This security outfit will go a long way in unraveling the hideous of criminals in the region . We all need to praise and encourage them for the good job. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The herders apex body Miyetti Allah was recently quoted to have said that the establishment of Amotekun will cost the South- West 2023 Presidency .Do you agree with this? To hell with Miyetti Allah or whatever they call themselves. Who made them slot sharer of the Presidency in the country? Do they own Nigeria? Are they a political party or the INEC? Such statement is very annoying and can only come from people who did not wish the country well. I am sure the person who made that statement on behalf of Miyetti Allah must have taken or drink something too strong for his body system to carry . It is only a thief that complains bitterly when you change the lock to your gate and make it more secure to prevent thieves from breaking in to your house. I hope what I am thinking is not right. Do you think the South West governors took the right steps in setting up Amotekun? Oh yes! They couldn’t have done anything better. When your people are being kidnapped, slaughtered raped, are you saying the leadership should fold their arms and allow such heinous crimes to continue? .No! People are no longer free to go to church or mosque to pray? Any government that is responsible should have praise these governors and encourage them to do more, I doubt if we have a government that cares about its subjects at the centre. I have been a victim of Kidnapping .About two years ago, two of my cousin were on their way to Abuja they were kidnapped somewhere in Ondo State. We have to raise millions of naira to get them out after almost two weeks in their den. Who knows this may not have happened if we had Amotekun by then. I wonder why this Federal government cannot just stop embarrassing herself. When you think you have seen or heard it all, they will come out with another joker. If the Federal Government stops Amotekun, what would you suggest as next line of action for the SouthWest governors?. I have made a public statement on this few days ago on behalf of South West Professional Forum of which I am the President and the action my group is ready to take if the Federal Government decided to prevent this noble initiative from taking off “What is good for the goose is also good for the gander. We already heard that about 23 states in the country are having one form of civilian security outfit or the other and most of them are in the North. Federal government did not pronounce any of them illegal. Amotekun is a child of necessity and it is an idea that whose time has come, nobody can stop it. It is going to stay. Take it to the bank. If the Attorney General of Nigeria feels otherwise, let him go to court. How do you think South West could get the presidency in 2023? I have said it before that Yoruba have not ruled Nigeria during this democratic dispensation. It is now our turn. We Yoruba’s never presented Obasanjo and the Yorubas never voted for him, and true to it, he never served the interest of the Yoruba when he was there as the president, he was just imposed on us by the cabals. Chief Olu Falae was the Yoruba choice then, but the cabal thought that he was too intelligent for them. Now is the time Yoruba is going to present a candidate of its own. Either from APC or PDP, any good Yoruba will be embraced by all. We in the South West are wiser now, either of the party will present a candidate that will be acceptable to us Yoruba and to the other part of Nigeria. I pray none of the party present an impostor from other part of the country. We all remembered how Jonathan marginalised us the Yorubas when he was there as the president and now we see what Buhari is doing for his northern people now, even our own security in the south west (Amotekun) Buhari’s government is saying we cannot have it because his Miyetti Allah said so. We Yoruba have been marginalised enough in this country and the rest of the country have to give us a sense of belonging. If we do good home work through the two major political party, 2023 presidency is for us in the South west to win, and nobody will be able to stop it. What is your view about the opposition condemning the judiciary each time judgment is against it? That is understandable at this stage of our politics, at least we have graduated from the era of self- help to the era of condemning the judiciary if judgment does not favour us, this stage shall also pass when we will accept election result without going to court. Nobody like to lose either through the election or in court. The reason why some people behave the way they are doing now is because the collateral damage is too much for the looser. When this three things happen, there will be less people going to court. When we start spending less money on election campaign; When we make elective office less attractive and the election is been seen as a means of going to serve the people not a place to go and make quick money for personal use and finally, most importantly when we have the political will to restructure the country. 