 The Federal Government has called on the top management
staff of the Ministry of Interior and its paramilitary agencies to ensure the
promotion of Citizenship Integrity in line with the mandate of the Ministry. Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola,  the Minister of Interior,  harped the charge on Saturday in Ilesha, Osun State, during the opening of a two-day Ministerial Strategy Retreat organized by the Ministry for its management staff and top functionaries of its Paramilitary Agencies towards achieving Mr. President’s mandate on internal security. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, a thorough analysis of an aspect of the
Ministry’s mandate that deals with the promotion of citizenship integrity would
widen and deepen the understanding of staff towards their responsibility to the
citizens and foreign nationals resident in the country thereby enabling them to
provide efficient services as required. “Promoting citizenship integrity has bearing on efficiency,
high ethical and moral conduct, responsiveness, commitment, patriotism,
compliance with rules and regulations and proactiveness in the discharge of our
duties”, the Minister stressed. He added that promoting citizenship integrity also means
treating them with dignity and guaranteeing their safety and security. Aregbesola said further that the demand for enhancing citizenship integrity cuts across the duties of all staff in the Ministry and the Agencies, and must be treated with all seriousness. The Retreat with the theme: “Driving Performance in
Achieving the Presidential mandate on Nigeria’s Internal Security”, affords the
staff the opportunity to deeply reflect on their individual mandates for a
clearer understanding of the demands on them to render effective service
delivery towards ensuring citizenship integrity and internal security in Nigeria. He noted that the focus of the President Muhammadu Buhari
Administration since 2015 is rested on the tripod of addressing internal
security in the country, revitalizing the economy and growing the economy,
while tackling corruption. The Minister said that the onus, therefore, rests on the Ministry of Interior as the organ of Government, responsible for fostering and ensuring the maintenance of security and citizenship integrity to deliver on its mandate, in order to validate the raise d’etre of Government which is the security and welfare of the people of Nigeria, adding that the Ministry has already commenced the process of establishing the Department of Citizens Integrity and Dignity in order to achieve its mandate. He said that the purpose of the Strategy Retreat is to
provide a congenial environment to brainstorm on the ways and means of
upscaling the strategic actions needed to be deployed to ensure the internal
security and public safety of the citizenry, while driving performance to
achieve the strategic objectives of the Federal Government which is, of forging
the path towards effective compliance with Mr. President’s charge on Nigeria’s
internal security He said that one of the major factors that contributed to
security challenges in the country had been the issue of the nation’s porous
borders which significantly led to the twin problem of proliferation of small
arms and ammunition in the country as well as the free entry of illegal
immigrants, many of whom constituted security threats to the nation. The recent implementation of the policy of partial closure
of the nation’s land borders by the Federal Government, Aregbesola said, is
aimed at addressing this challenge and has greatly contributed to the current
level of peace and security being experienced in the country. He said that the retreat, therefore, provides the necessary platform to brainstorm and articulate other policies, programmes, and strategies that would further address the problem of insecurity in the country. “With the enormous task ahead of us, we must all put our thinking caps and articulate strategies that would promote collaboration, and create the necessary synergy that would guarantee a safe and secure internal environment in our country. “The task demands a clear and deeper understanding of the mandate of the Ministry and its Paramilitary Agencies as well as the Board. Our understanding and appreciation of these responsibilities will to a very large extent determine how far and how well we deliver on our individual mandates which all contribute to internal security and safety in the country.” Aregbesola emphasised Earlier in her welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior, Barr. Georgina E. Ehuriah said that the retreat was aimed at securing the alignment of the roles of the Ministry and its Agencies towards achieving President Muhammadu Buhari’s mandate on internal security She assured that the Management of the Ministry and its
Paramilitary Agencies will continue to provide the necessary support required
towards achieving all the deliverables assigned the Minister and the Ministry
by the President Buhari Administration towards ensuring a reversal of the
current security challenges in the country, so as to provide a safe haven for
investors, thus attracting Direct Foreign Investment in the country.