ISRAEL – Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has revealed that FCT Administration would continue to sponsor the yearly pilgrimage to Holy Lands to rejuvenate the spiritual lives of the people. Aliyu made this known in her message to commemorate the occasion of JP Ceremony in Jerusalem. She said the pilgrimage also gives opportunity for them to be thankful to God for the successful elections and fresh mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari. The minister who was represented on the occasion by Mrs. Chinwendu Amba said, “I believe you have come; you have seen; and you have been spiritually renewed to move into the new decade starting with renewed vigour and gratitude to almighty God.” She added, “The FCT has continued to sponsor the yearly pilgrimage to the Holy lands as a way to rejuvenate the spiritual lives of our people. It is also an opportunity for us to be thankful to God for the successful elections and the fresh mandate given to our leader in relatively peaceful environment. “So I trust that during your pilgrimage, most of you have used the opportunity to not only pray for yourself and families but you have also made supplications to God for our dear President, President Muhammadu Buhari and our country Nigeria so that God will continue to sustain the leadership and the people of Nigeria in this dispensation. “We must continue to pray for the country to surmount the myriad of challenges particularly the insurgency and waves of criminality besetting us. “We have infinite faith in God that all our prayers have been answered.” In another note, she said, “Israel offered so many tourism opportunities to refresh ourselves and add to our rich resource of knowledge. As you return home, it is my hope that you will use whatever knowledge that has been acquired to translate to practical ideas to develop our own tourism resources in Nigeria. “On this note, I thank the Tourism Board and the operators, most especially Tailor Made Tours who have put this relatively hitch-free tour together.” Also, Mrs. Josephine Zinder, Founder and President of Tailor Made Tours Limited, said Nigeria is the most loyal friend of the company and would make sure Nigeria gets the best. She also noted that when Nigerians prays testimonies abide. Earlier, the Director, FCT Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board, Mr. Audu Bingo Dabara, appreciated FCT Minister of State who sponsored some pilgrims from her personal purse. He also thanked the Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, for sponsoring some pilgrims. He, however, urged the pilgrims to translate what they have acquired in the land of Israel for our national development. He urged pilgrims to decrease in self and increase in Christ.