Abuja – Justice Abubakar Idris Kutigi of High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Gwagwalada, has ordered the arrest of a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Dauzia Loya (Dan) Etete and two others over the $1.2 billion Malabu oil deal. The court gave the order on Thursday following an ex parte application by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). After hearing the application, the judge held: “I have carefully gone through the application…The application has merit and is granted as prayed.” The two others are Munamuna Seidougha and Amaran Joseph. The EFCC, according to its lawyer, Bala Sanga, preferred charges against the three suspects before the court over the Malabu oil block (OPL 245) settlement agreement. Sanga told the court that the ex parte application was filed on January 28 and supported by an 8-paragraph affidavit deposed to by one Ibrahim Ahmed and attached with one exhibit. He said, “The kernel of the ex parte application is that names of the respondents in the criminal charge CR/151/2020 were mentioned in count 14-42 of the charge and where indicated to be at large.” He added that in order for the respondents to be brought before the court to enter their pleas, we will be requesting for an order of warrant for their arrest. “Intelligence suggests they reside in France and occasionally at some African countries and to be able to get the support of the international police, the warrant of arrest would be needed,” he said. Meanwhile, Justice Kutigi has granted bail to the former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Bello Adoke, in the sum of N50 million. Another defendant in the Malabu oil scam leading to the frittering of about $1.2 billion, A. Aliyu, was admitted to bail by Justice Kutigi to the tune of N50 million. Similarly, the court granted the 3rd defendant, Rasky Gbinijie, bail in the sum of N10 million. Adoke and his co-defendants are being prosecuted by the Federal Government over their involvement in the alleged Malabu oil deal fraud amounting to $1.2 billion.  Charged alongside Adoke are Rasky Gbinigie, and A. Abubakar. Other defendants in the controversial deal are Malabu Oil and Gas Limited, Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited, Shell Ultra Deep Limited and Shell Nigeria Exploration Production Limited. The defendants all pleaded not guilty to the 42-count charge preferred against them by the Federal Government. The Federal Government in a charge marked CR/151/2020, filed at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory alleged that Adoke and the other accused, received gratification to carry out the alleged fraudulent oil deal. On the bail granted Adoke, the court said that he must provide a surety, who must be resident in FCT with property within the jurisdiction. The surety must provide evidence of tax payment in the last three years and a written undertaking that the defendant will attend his trial. The judge ordered Adoke to deposit his international passport with the court registrar and a written undertaking that he will not interfere with the prosecution witnesses.  Justice Kutigi stressed that the undertaking will include a clause that a breach of the undertaking automatically means the revocation of bail. The bail condition of A. Aliyu, the 2nd defendant, is similar to Adoke’s. The 3rd defendant, Gbinijie, is also required to produce one surety with similar bail conditions like Adoke’s bail conditions. Reacting to the bail, Adoke’s counsel, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), said the defendants are grateful to God and the judiciary. We are grateful the judge gave us liberal conditions. We are prepared to face the trial. The substantive matter has been adjourned to March 26 and 27, 2020 for trial.