MAKURDI- Richard Abimiku,  Director, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Benue state has warned staff of the agency that under his watch, the NOA in the state would not tolerate truancy and negligence of duty. The Director who was recently posted to the state also urged staff of the Agency to be proactive in the discharge of their duty. The NOA boss gave the warning during a meeting with all the 23 Chief Orientation and Mobilization Officers (COMOs), Heads of Departments, as well as other staff of the Directorate in his office in Makurdi. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This was contained in a statement signed by the state Public Relation Officer (PRO) of the Agency, Dooshima Upev, a copy which was made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Wednesday. While Abimiku reminded NOA staff in the state that NOA was about commitment, cooperation and sacrifices, he urged staff to always consult the state headquarters when faced with challenges on the field, so as not to jeopardize the functions of the agency. He blamed staff of the agency for poor information dissemination to the public, adding that for them to be effective in their duties, they must be ICT compliant. Abimiku further stated that in the bid to improve on the Agency’s image, activities as well as quality of their reports, “all COMOs and by extension, staff should develop themselves and be prepared to take up more tasking responsibilities.” The Director however advised the COMOs to beware of comments on the social media that have the tendency of projecting the Agency in negative light before the public. Speaking at the occasion, the COMOs pledged their commitment and cooperation to the Director for enhanced performance. While they promised to work towards addressing all the lapses raised by the Director, the staff used the occasion to enumerated some of the challenges confronting them. The challenges they said, include non-payment of their monthly imprests, as well as none funding of some programs, which had hindered them from delivering on their jobs. End.