Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has given assurance of his administration’s commitment to sustain on-going efforts to end child marriage, including improving girl-child education in the country. He gave the assurance while commissioning the headquarters building of the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs on Thursday in Abuja. According to the president, it is the collective duty of all to ensure that mothers of today and tomorrow were educated, encouraged, and empowered. “Our quest is to ensure that concerns of women, children, and other vulnerable citizens are given prominence and ultimately addressed. “A key priority of our government is the development and implementation of social inclusion and economic sustenance policies. “Our determination is to ensure that economic growth and prosperity are felt by as wide a circle as possible. “In particular, we are laying great emphasis on education of the girl-child. The high level of young girls who are out of school or unable to complete school due to socio-economic pressures is disturbing and must be addressed. “The launch of the National Strategy to End Child Marriage, 2016 – 2021, has been the first critical step towards increasing children’s access to quality all-round education and enhancing the retention of the girl-child in our schools,” the president said. The president seized the opportunity of the forum to enjoin ministry officials to continue to champion and coordinate all matters relating to the plight of Nigerian women and the most vulnerable citizens, assuring Nigerian women of his continued support and determination to see that the ministry delivered on this mandate. He lauded the ministry and other relevant government agencies for their positive contributions in reducing human trafficking incidents and maternal mortality. “I expect this ministry to maintain its lead coordinating role on these, and other women’s related matters working with state governments as well as our regional and international partners,’’ he said. In her remarks, the Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, thanked the president for recognising the role of women in nation-building and supporting the completion of the headquarters of the women ministry. The minister appealed to the president to appoint more women to leadership positions in his government, assuring that her ministry would double efforts to improve girl-child education in the country while advancing the welfare of vulnerable persons and women.