Nepal’s transitional justice process, which has been stalled for years, looks all set to take a step forward, as authorities plan to begin nationwide consultations with victims and stakeholders. Nepal formed two commissions in 2015 to address transitional justice, but activists say it has been beset with delays and political interference. The two bodies have been lying defunct since last year but this week, a recommendation committee set up by the government is ready to recommend officials to be appointed to the two commissions – the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) and the Commission of Investigation on Enforced Disappeared Persons (CIEDP). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The government on Monday began nationwide consultations with victims regarding the Transitional Justice Act (TJA), but victims of Nepal’s decade-long civil war (1996-2006) claim that government processes are “cursory” and do not take victims’ voices into consideration. On Monday morning, before the consultation, CVCP protested at Maitighar Mandala in the capital Kathmandu, claiming the consultation was too short, was just for show, and was not transparent. They claimed it was not intended to benefit the victims, Al Jazeera reports. Victims’ groups had also asked that the Act be amended before officials are appointed to the two commissions. The two commissions together have received about 65,000 complaints, but were unable to investigate all the claims and report their finding within their initial term of two years. Their terms were extended several times, before expiring early last year. Now the government seems ready to jumpstart the transitional justice process. “We have received about 60 applications for positions in the two commissions, and we have studied them. We are ready to make our recommendations by the end of the week,” said Sharmila Karki, a spokesperson of the committee tasked with recommending officials to the two commissions. “We do not know when the government will appoint them or how the process will go forward after that.” Ram Bhandari, the president of National Alliance of Conflict Victims, says the government should not rush with the appointment to the transitional bodies without amending the TJA as it grants amnesty to perpetrators. “Of course, we want the two commissions to be reformed so that they can take the process of transitional justice forward. But if they are reformed now, it will be on the basis of existing laws, and we do not want that,” said Bhandari, who split from CVCP in 2018. “The recommendation commission has not held consultation with victims, and it seems to be a victim of political interventions.”