ABUJA – The hope of the former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN), to secure bail was dashed on Tuesday as Justice Othman Musa, who ordered his remand for 14 days has returned the case file to the Chief Judge of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory for reassignment. Justice Musa, a vacation judge, had on December 20, 2019, gave the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) nod to remand Adoke for 14 days pending conclusion of investigation. In a bid to secure bail, Adoke filed an application which was fixed for hearing on Tuesday. However, due to the inability of Justice Musa to conclude hearing of the bail application, he had to return the case file to the Chief Judge. The judge could not conclude hearing on the bail application because Adoke’s lawyer had applied for an adjournment to enable him respond to the counter affidavit filed by the EFCC in opposition to the application. In a short ruling on the propriety of granting the adjournment, Justice Musa explained that the vacation period of the court ends on January 3, 2020. Consequently, he had to return the case file to the Chief Judge of the FCT for reassignment to another judge. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Adoke’s predicament is not unconnected with the alleged role he played as Minister of Justice in the controversial Oil Prospecting Licence 245 contract scam otherwise known as Malabu Oil deal. The EFCC had in 2017, pressed charges against Shell Nigeria Exploration Production Company Limited and 10 others, including Adoke and Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited. In the suit marked FCT/ HC/CR/124/17, the anti-graft agency had alleged that Adoke and the other defendants fraudulently allocated the Oil Prospecting Licence 245 otherwise known as Malabu Oil. They were also accused of other forms of offences involving the sum of about $1.2 billion, forgery of bank documents, bribery and corruption. The alleged $1.2 billion scam involved the transfer of the OPL 245 purportedly from Malabu Oil and Gas Limited to Shell Nigeria Exploration Production Co. Limited and Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited. Adoke returned to the country two weeks ago after five years in self-exile only to be arrested on arrival by the EFCC at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja.