Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie So many businesses are facing stagnation. They are neither moving forward nor backward. Some businesses are completely dead. We want to use this medium to consider why so many business centres are going down. We shall also consider possible ways of reviving these businesses. If most business centers are thriving, it will go a long way in solving the perennial problem of unemployment. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This article is not only meant to enlighten the businessmen it is also meant to encourage and motivate our business men and women. As you go through this article God will release the anointing of breakthrough upon your business! Today happens to be Easter Sunday; the very day when Christians all over the world celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. If a dead Man could come back to life, I see no reason why your business will not come back to life. Before reflecting on the resurrection of your business let us first establish some of the reasons why so many businesses are not moving forward. Hence, problem known is problem solved! Lack of Proper planning before setting up a Business: Most people don’t seat down to plan their business strategy before embarking on business. They jump into business without any preparation and proper planning. Unfortunately for them, he who fails to plan has planned to fail. Jesus once asked his disciples, “Which of you, intending to build a tower, does not first sit down and estimate the cost, to see whether he has enough to complete it? 29 Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it will begin to ridicule him, 30 saying, ‘This fellow began to build and was not able to finish” (Luke 14:28-30). He was unable to finish his project because he failed to plan. This is exactly what happens when someone jumps into business without proper planning. Part of the business planning is to ascertain whether one has enough capital before embarking on a business. How to manage the available capital requires a thorough planning.  Even the safety of the goods must be taking into consideration while planning. Failure to Engage the Customers:  Every businessman is at the service of the customers. A successful businessman carries his customer along. As a businessman you need to get feedback from your customers as often as possible. Listen to their complaints and if possible seek advice from them. Try to find out if they are satisfied with your goods and services. Don’t ever presume.  One man’s meat may be another man’s poison. that is the reason why you must listen to all your customers, especially when they are complaining about your goods and services. Appreciate them for their corrections and contributions. Your business cannot grow without feedback. High prize scares customers away: This is common among businessmen. In an attempt to make quick and more profits most businessmen hike the prize of their goods. Unfortunately for them, the more they hike the prize of their goods and services the more they scale customers away. Most customers would prefer to patronize businessmen who reduce the prize of their goods and services. That is the reason why customers spend time and energy bargaining. Wise businessmen don’t stress their customers. They are not greedy. They always make quick returns because their prizes are reasonable and affordable. Business Domineering: Most people fail in their business because they try to do everything alone. A tree cannot make a forest! Two good heads are better than one. You need a business partner. Even if your business is not as big as to a level of employing business partners, at least you need a sales boy or sales girl. Most people lock their business centre when they go to church, party or even when they travel out. As a businessman you don’t keep customers waiting. A customer wants to see your business centre open at all times. There is no way you can do this alone. You need others in order to succeed in your business. Monotony leads to Business stagnation: You must not be like others and you must not continue to repeat the same method of doing business. Unfortunately, most businessmen like to copy what their fellow businessmen are doing. The same old method of doing business is what is recycling all the time. That a businessman succeeded in one particular method of doing business does not guarantee your success in that particular method. Failure to meet the Customers’ Demand: Any businessman that fails to meet the demand of the customer is bound to fail. Nothing is as frustrating as coming to a shop only to discover that the shop does not have what you are looking for. If you try to visit same shop twice and you are disappointed you are likely not going to visit the shop again. As a businessman, you must ensure that your business is well and fully equipped. Expired and inferior Goods: Most businessmen hardly check the expiring date of the goods they are buying. Most of them don’t even consider the quality of their goods. As a result, they have lost so many customers due to inferior and expired goods. If you want to succeed as a businessman you must ensure that your goods are fresh and of high quality. Avoid inferior goods and services. Failure to Save: Any businessman that does not have a solid saving system will soon be out of business. Business cannot thrive without savings. It is through savings that businessmen secure their capital. Savings requires discipline. If you are not disciplined enough you cannot sustain a business. Disciplined and serious minded businessmen hardly spend their business capital. Before making any extraordinary expenses they must ensure that their capital is intact. Above all, Most People set up their Business without God: One common mistake people make is to set up a business without God. It is not only risky, it is also the surest path to business failure. Our Lord Jesus Christ assured his followers, “I am the vine, you are the branches. Those who abide in me and I in them bear much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing” (John 15:5). With Christ all things are possible, including your business breakthrough! Jesus Christ is the source of our fruitfulness. He is the One that blesses the work of our hands. Christ is the solid rock on which believers build their homes and their business. This is exactly where people are getting it wrong. Most people try to set up their business without Christ, whereas Jesus said, without him we are bound to fail. St. James wrote to businessmen. “Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a town and spend a year there, doing business and making money.” 14 Yet you do not even know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes. 15 Instead you ought to say, “If the Lord wishes, we will live and do this or that.” (James 4:13-16). Planning with God is planning for success. As you build your business in God and with God, you will surely succeed. Easter period is a period of resurrection, restoration and restitution. Jesus Christ did not remain in the grave forever. Child of God, your business will not remain stagnant forever. Jesus resurrected after three days. Child of God, your period of three days in the grave is over, I see you resurrecting. I see your business bouncing back to life. Your period of failure and disappointment is over! Your period of fruitless labour is over! Your period of indebtedness is over! Your period of borrowing is over! I release the anointing of resurrection upon your business, in the name of God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Spirit