LAGOS – Doyin Okupe, former Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs to ex-President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan has ad­vised the Peoples Democrat­ic Party (PDP) to consider rebranding and a change in the party’s name in order to reclaim power from the All Progressives Congress (APC). Okupe, in a post on his Facebook page, noted that to most Nigerians today there is no significant difference between the PDP and APC. According to him, “This is nothing to cheer because if this perception continues till the election in 2023, we can easily be muscled out of victory by the power of incumbency and Nigerians will not care a hoot. It will be a case of dogs eat dogs. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Secondly, and as a con­sequence of the above, the PDP has a heavy credibility burden, which will weigh it down during the campaigns. A brand new party with new orientation and ideology can­not have a past that anyone can use against it effectively.” The PDP chieftain ex­plained that there are so many registered parties who have learnt a hard lesson from the last elections, saying that Nige­rians have no time for political innovators or starters. Besides, he explained that the impending and unavoid­able implosion in APC will leave a large chunk of politi­cally strong conclaves in the abyss trying to find relevance and a comfortable and prom­ising coalition. “Most of them because of self-pride and personal cred­ibility will not like to come under the so-called ‘soiled’ umbrella of the PDP. “However a brand new political formation differ­ent in substance and essence from PDP will be a political refuge for them and even others presently undecided to vigorously pursue their agenda and exploits under the new formation,” he stat­ed. Okupe also clarified that this move will afford the party take advantage of millions of youths who could not find expressivity in the old political forma­tions like the PDP and APC, as this will make the youth seize the opportunity of newness and the chance of a new beginning, to move in en masse and find the relevance on the new and novel platform. “Stakeholders must rise above the sentiments and attachment to the old name, though justifiable, and agree to an opening up of the old party, to allow a new beginning that will lead to a major national movement, which will have the poten­tial to sweep away the APC or whatever vestiges of it to the blocks for the 2023 race.”