Lagos – A whole lot of sweeping changes are taking place in the Nigerian banking sector which many analysts believe are going to make or mar the system in the next decade or beyond. Some of these changes identified by Daily Independent include the determination of banks to lower corporate governance measures and cut lending rates to woo borrowers as the loan-to-deposit-ratio (LDR) regime of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) takes root. These two measures, Daily Independent learnt, were meant to raise profitability and to meet the 65 percent loan-to-deposit-ratio (LDR) target set by the CBN. They are relying more on lending to grow their profits as yields from government securities – Treasury Bills and Bonds – drop. Besides, the apex bank has slashed non-interest income (commission and fees) seen as major revenue channels for banks. Ada Ufomadu, banking sector analyst at Agusto and Co, said the private sector is grateful to the CBN that there will be more money in the system but it is left for the banks to do the needful. “Many people are of the opinion that the LDR will affect the banks negatively as it looks like the CBN is forcing the banks to lend. What that means is that the banks will just be giving loans to conform to the LDR regulations but this is not going to be good to the banks. In that situation, the banks will now have bad loans. “What we will have going forward is that banks, in order to meet up with the LDR policy, will have to lower their corporate governance measures and the consequences are better only imagined,” Ufomadu said. Analysts at Afrinvest West Africa, an investment and research firm, said the lending rates are trending downwards, with many Tier-1 banks competing for profitable borrowers and cutting down rates. Afrinvest West Africa Limited Group Managing Director, Ike Chioke, said the banking sector has given out N1.5 trillion as loans following the implementation of the LDR policy. He said the CBN is likely to further raise the LDR to 70 percent to boost lending to the private sector. According to Chioke, lending rates to individuals have dropped from between 20 and 25 percent to 15 percent and below. It will continue to dip as banks compete for credible borrowers with ability and willingness to repay their loans. Chioke said increase in loans is a positive feedback in growing the economy, adding that non-performing loans (NPLs) rate will not rise until next year when most of the loans will be due for repayment. Ayodeji Ebo, Managing Director of Afrinvest Securities, said: “We expect that the NPLs will rise between 2021 and 2022, and the CBN is even trying to recapitalise the banks to enable them absorb the likely shock from the NPLs rise. “It is almost like a chicken and egg situation in terms of the LDR policy. We want to get the banks lend more and yes, we know we are aware that the risk is still very high as much as possible but maybe in terms of looking at most banks. “We would expect that NPLs would rise. And we feel that there is enough buffers to absorb whatever reaction that may come out of that. That is why the CBN is also trying to see how they will recapitalise the banks for them to get stronger to be able to absorb the shock. “As the banks do more lending, they are also aware that the risks are still very high, as much as possible. Still, some banks are not willing to take any form of risk due to their past experiences.” According to him, the CBN will be monitoring the NPLs, and overtime, decide either to relax the policy or not. He said that power and mortgage sectors are likely to attract more loans as the policy reviews in those sectors give banks more confidence to lend. “Yields from government securities are collapsing, and banks are really trying to expand the size of their books through increased loans. In terms of non-interest income, the CBN came out in the fourth quarter of last year and revised the guide to bank charges, which meant that banks earn less from non-interest income (fees and commission),” he added. The industry LDR had stood at 80.1 percent in 2016; 75.1 percent in 2017, and 66.4 percent in 2018 and has continued to trend downward as lenders cut their credit exposures, focusing on high-yielding government securities – Bonds and TBs.