LAGOS – The Southwest Stakeholders Security Group(SSSG) has alleged that the South West governors kept it in the dark on the modalities for the launch of the security task force in the region, codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’, which is expected to kick off on January 9. It however applauded the move by the governors to start the joint security task force across the South West, saying the operation would create the needed synergy between the states to ensure safety and security of the region. In an updated report on the security architecture initiated by the six governors in the South West to curtail armed banditry, kidnapping and killings in the zone, Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, on the New Year day, specifically reported that the outfit would take off on January 9 after the endorsement of the reviewed Standard Operating Practice (SOP) by the governors. The SSSG is made up of many Yoruba based groups, including Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), the Vigilante Group of Nigeria(VGN), the South West Hunters Association(SWHAN) the Agbekoyas, South West Agbekoya Group (SAG), Agbekoya Farmers Society Group, and Yoruba Youth Council (YYC). Rising from a meeting at the residence of the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, on Saturday, the group gave its nod to the new initiative, saying it was ready to complement the efforts of the governors and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) in their plan to make the South West safe for the people. It, however, said they were yet to be contacted by the governors on the recruitment process and other modus operandi of the scheme despite involving Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) and other security outfits. While warning against the politicisation of the scheme, they also advised the governors against recruiting private individuals and political errand boys to drive the scheme, warning that nobody should blame the SSSG if the operation fails. The group said it was alerting the world to know that they were not a part of the security arrangement, billed to kick off in four days’ time. Adams, convener of the group, said efforts to curb security challenges in the region was beginning to yield positive results, pointing out that the group, since inception in July 2019 had made significant efforts to reduce the spate of insecurity in the South West. He reiterated the need to create a workable synergy between the security outfits and the leaders at the grassroots, even as he expressed the readiness of the group to take the issue seriously without any room for failure.