ABUJA – The Federal Government has filed a fresh 42-count charge against former Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Bello Adoke, and six others over alleged fraud in the $1.1 billion Malabu oil deal. Adoke is being charged alongside Rasky Gbinigie, A. Abubakar, Malabu Oil and Gas Limited, Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited, Shell Ultra Deep Limited and Shell Nigeria Exploration Production Limited. The Federal Government, in a document with charge number
CR/151/2020 dated January 14 and filed on January 15, at the High Court of the
Federal Capital Territory, accused Adoke and others of receiving gratification
to allegedly carry out a fraudulent oil deal. According to the Federal Government, as Attorney-General,
Adoke mediated controversial agreements that ceded OPL 245 to Shell and Eni who
in turn paid about $1.1 billion to accounts controlled by former Petroleum
Minister, Dan Etete. Etete, now at large, was a former Petroleum Minister under
the regime of General Sani Abacha. Adoke, since he left the country after the
administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan, returned into the country
on December 19, 2019 from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and was arrested by the
operatives of the EFCC at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He is being charged by the anti-graft agency on alleged
abuse of office and money laundering in respect of the granting of the Oil
Prospecting License (OPL) 245 to Shell and ENI. According to the charge, the
former AGF in August 2013 in Abuja while serving as a minister knowingly
received United State dollars equivalent of N300 million which is reasonably
suspected of having been unlawfully obtained and thereby committed offence
punishable under section 319A of the Penal Code, Cap. 532 laws of the
federation of Nigeria 1990. The suit, signed by Bala Sanga on behalf of the EFCC,
further said that one of the accused persons, Rasky Gbinigie conspired with
Munamuna Seidougha (at large), Amaran Joseph (at large) and Dauzia Loya Etete
(at large), sometime in 2013, in Abuja, dishonestly used as genuine the forged
form CAC 7 and board resolution of Malabu Oil and Gas Limited and the letter of
resignation of one Mohammed Sani to open a bank account no. 2018288005 with
First Bank of Nigeria Plc to receive the sum of $401. 5 million. According to the charge, the accused persons committed an
offence contrary to section 366 of the Penal Code and punishable under the same
section of the Penal Code. In count seven, Adoke was said to have in September
2013 knowingly and unlawfully obtained the sum of US dollars equivalent to
N367,318,800 and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 319A of
the Penal Code, Cap.532 laws of the federation of Nigeria, 1990. In the charge, Gbinigie, the company secretary of Malabu Oil
was said to have made false resignation letter signed by one Alhaji Hassan
Hindu as having resigned from the board of Malabu Oil and Gas Limited with
intent to commit fraud.