Mercedes-Benz recorded 1.3 per cent growth in 2019 with total deliveries of 2,339,562 units worldwide within the period. The figure represented ninth consecutive record year for the German auto giant. A statement by Beatrice Oyesile, Head, Marketing, Weststar Associates Ltd, the authorised general distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria stated that Mercedes-Benz still maintained its leading position among the luxury car brands for the fourth year in a row with the deliveries. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The statement hinted further that in all three of its main markets – China, Germany and the USA – the Stuttgart-based brand with the three-pointed star surpassed the high levels of the previous year. China, Mercedes-Benz’s largest market, remained the main growth driver, with sales of 693,443 units representing an increase of 6.2 per cent and a new record year. Last year’s model offensive with a total of more than 10 new or revised models led to a significant boost in unit sales, particularly of compact cars and Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs), and contributed to the overall sales growth. In full year 2019, Mercedes-Benz maintained its market leadership in the luxury segment in markets including Germany, Great Britain, France, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Poland, Portugal, South Korea, Japan, Australia, Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Canada and South Africa. Ola Källenius, Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler AG and Mercedes-Benz AG: “The ninth consecutive record year underscores once more the strong demand for Mercedes-Benz vehicles, even amidst far-reaching changes in the mobility landscape. In addition, Mercedes-Benz continues to be clearly the number one in the luxury market – this proves how valuable our brand is. “2019 was a year of great challenges for the automotive industry. The next two years will also be characterized more than ever by the transformation of our industry. In this challenging environment, we intend to further increase our unit sales and set the course for long-term competitiveness. ”With investments in new technologies and profitable sales growth, we are paving the way for Mercedes-Benz to lead the global luxury market as a pioneer of sustainable luxury also in an era of CO2-neutral mobility.” In the fourth quarter of 2019, Mercedes-Benz sold for the first time more than 600,000 cars within a quarter. In the month of December, 205,968 vehicles were sold and therefore the high prior-year level was almost achieved (-0.3 per cent). Britta Seeger, Member of the Boards of Management of Daimler AG and Mercedes-Benz AG responsible for Marketing and Sales: “In 2019, a particularly large number of customers in China, Germany and the USA decided in favour of a new vehicle from Mercedes-Benz: In each of these three major markets, we surpassed the high level of unit sales we achieved in the previous year. “The ninth record year reflects, among other things, the success of our model offensive with Compact Cars and SUVs, which have delighted new and existing customers all over the world. We offer a broad product line-up with innovative technology and emotional design, which means we have the right vehicle for every customer. This year, we want to further rejuvenate our product portfolio with more than ten new or revised models, including a specific focus on electrified models.” In the Asia-Pacific sales region, a new record was achieved in 2019 with 977,922 units sold (+3.7 per cent). In fact, more Mercedes-Benz vehicles were delivered in China than in any other market globally. A total of 693,443 cars were handed over to customers in China, an increase of more than 40,000 units compared with the previous year and a new record (+6.2 per cent). Hereby, the strong product offensive, the localization strategy and the customer-centric operation remained key success factors in China; more than three-quarters of the vehicles sold there came directly from local production last year.