A sex attacker who molested his ex-wife in the kitchen of her home while their children were in the next room has kept his job with Tesco. Senga Downie has spoken out after she came face to face with Asif Syed at the supermarket giant’s petrol station on Wishaw, Lanarkshire. The 42-year-old, from Bellshill in Lanarkshire, was subjected to the degrading assault by Syed and thought he had been sacked following his conviction, the Daily Record reports. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The mum-of-three said: “I drove in and spotted his car and then saw him behind the counter through the window. “I felt terrified. It brought everything right back to me and knocked me back. I just went into autopilot and had to get away as quick as I could. I flew through a roundabout and my car almost went under a truck.” Syed, 50, avoided jail but was placed on the sex offenders’ register for three years and given community service. He was also ordered to carry out 270 hours of unpaid work and ordered to be supervised for three years following the conviction in June 2018. Senga says her daughters refuse to speak to their dad because of the ordeal he put her through. Recalling events leading up to the assault, Senga said he was dropping two of his children off at her home after a contact visit when the attack took place. She said: “He started making suggestive comments and smacked me on the bum and my eldest daughter told him off, saying, ‘That’s my mum’. I had left him four years prior. “I went into the kitchen and he came in and tried to come on to me. Syed then assaulted Senga. She added: “He only stopped when my daughter came in to the kitchen. “He had read on my Facebook page that I was in a relationship and told me he couldn’t cope with me being with someone else as I had been his wife for 12 years.” She said after the assault he grabbed her by her throat in front of one of their daughters and she had to wait two years for the case to be dealt by the courts. Senga, who now suffers with post-traumatic stress disorder, started drinking heavily and later lost her job as a manager at a homeless service for women. Her mental health deteriorated and she tried to take her own life. She said Tesco has been made aware of Syed’s conviction on more than one occasion. “I told him not to but he pinned me up between the wall and the fridge freezer. As soon as he was convicted, my friend contacted Tesco to let them know they had a sex offender working for them,” she said. “I knew they were aware over a year ago so I just didn’t expect him to still be working there. They seem to have done nothing about it but I live in a prison now, I very rarely go out the door. “The thought of even going into Wishaw now makes me feel sick.” The Daily Record said ittried repeatedly to contact Syed for comment at his home in Holytown, Lanarkshire, but he couldn’t be reached. Tesco said it wouldn’t comment on an “individual colleague”.