LOKOJA  – A member representing Yagba Federal Constituency in kogi state, Hon. Leke Abejide on Saturday paid N72million for the West African Examination Certificate (WAEC) fees for all SS3 students in his constituency. The lawmaker, while presenting the cheques to both public and private schools said the gesture will enable the beneficiaries undertake the examination and reduce the burden of WAEC fees on their parents. He encouraged the students to be more serious and fall in love with their studies, saying that education is the hub of human development. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Most important to me is education. It’s the key that opens every door of success. An educated person will be developing people and eventually a nation. Without education, society can’t move forward, it can’t prosper, it can’t grow.” “Today, we are presenting cheques of N72million to principals of public secondary schools of our constituency. This is part of my commitment to improve on the standard of education and to reduce the burden of WAEC fees on parents. “The importance of education to societal development cannot be overemphasised, hence the need for the gesture.” Hon. Abejide restated his commitment to initiate good policies and programmes that would have direct impact on the lives of the people of his constituency and the country at large. The donation which was done through the lawmaker’s foundation, Leke Abejide Foundation saw 68 schools from both private and public secondary schools across the three council areas of the constituency as beneficiaries. Also speaking, Chief Shola Adebola, the Director General of the Foundation, disclosed that in 2019, the lawmaker paid WAEC fees for students in the Constituency even before he got elected, adding that this year’s payment is in fulfilment of his campaign promises made to the people of Yagba to continue the payment for the period of four years in office. “The legislator, Hon. Leke Abejide has been making frantic effort towards the delivery of a sound education foundation through the payments of WAEC fees for the students in his constituency. It is his sincere belief that there is no substitute to quality education. Our resolve on education is not accidental. We are very clear in our resolve that we need to upgrade the standard.” The representative of the Traditional father’s, HRM Oba S.A. Muhammad, commended the lawmaker for his effort at reducing the burden of schooling on parents stressing that the greatest legacy to bequeath to next generation is education. Speaking on behalf of the parents, Chief Samuel Iwalaiye said, “In our contemporary Nigeria, we have three major sectors; politics, commerce and education. Out of these three major sectors, education is the most paramount. We cannot make waves in other two sectors without education”. Spokesperson for the beneficiary schools, Chief Toyin Adedoyin also eulogised the lawmaker for extending the kind gesture to all the private secondary schools in Yagba federal constituency.