Lagos – Chief Martin Onovo, a versatile politician and former presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) has declared that Nigeria is presently moving towards a failed state and will continue to fall irretrievably unless it is restructured. Onovo, currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change, who spoke at a conference on restructuring  organised by the University of Lagos Institute for Africa and Diaspora Studies on Thursday, maintained that the current unitary structure with small and weak federating units imposed by the military had contributed immensely to the nation’s predicament. He said that unless the nation imbibes good leadership at the centre and the regions, which would ensure justice, peace and productive competition, there cannot be to economic growth and accelerated national development. Onovo stressed that for the nation’s leadership to improve; Nigerians have no option, but to reinforce the national ethos. The politician, a stakeholder in the nation’s oil sector, maintained that Nigeria clearly had the human and material resources to easily get to the top 10 percent of countries in the world by per capita income, but lamented that the country had become the world’s capital of extreme poverty. He said: “We are also the third most terrorised country in the world. We have the highest number of out-of-school children in the world and the worst police force in the world. Quoting the late Prof. Chinua Achebe, Onovo said: “The trouble with Nigeria is simply and squarely a failure of leadership,” even as he maintained that many Nigerians believe that the current structure of Nigeria had also contributed to the nation’s problems. Going memory lane, Onovo recalled that Nigeria gained independence in 1960 with three regions, based on the agreement reached at the pre-independence Lancaster House Conferences for a federal Constitution. Prior to the military intervention of 1966, he noted that the three regions had a healthy productive competition developing their human and material resources. “With the military take-over of government, they imposed a unitary system of government in line with their unitary military command mentality,” he added. Onovo maintained that the creation of 12 states by Gen. Yakubu Gowon in 1967, weakened the healthy productive competition of the federating units, which had become smaller and weaker. He added: “Then, with the oil boom of the early 70s, the healthy productive competition of the federating units withered and turned to this unhealthy unproductive competition for a bigger share of the oil revenue aka national cake. “This withering of the prior productive competition was caused by the combined weight of the unitary system, weaker federating units, the oil boom, the unitary revenue allocation principle and the pathetic political leadership.” Onovo restated the views of several analysts, who insisted that restructuring Nigeria back to six regions with devolution of powers and fiscal federalism would return the country to healthy productive competition of the regions and to the associated economic productivity, an opinion he described as valid. “In addition, all agree that Nigeria needs to diversify its economy for growth. The unjust, inefficient and corrupt unitary system we run has been unable to achieve this since the last 20 years. “Restructuring will allow the regions to focus on their different comparative advantages and thereby diversify our national economy for accelerated development. We remember the groundnut pyramids of the Northern region, the vast cocoa export of the Western region and the massive palm oil export of the Eastern region during the first republic. “Similarly, electric power is critical to productivity and economic development, but it is in the Exclusive List of our current unitary structure. Unfortunately, the inefficient and corrupt unitary system has been unable to deliver significant power supply for so many decades. “With restructuring, the regions can develop regional power supply using the particular resources in their regions. This will boost productivity and economic development in Nigeria. “Furthermore, peace is necessary for development. The current structure is skewed and unjust as it deprives some regions and favors others with a ‘rob John to pay Abdulahi’ system. This is not only with southern oil revenue, but also with VAT, CIT, Ports revenue, etc. “This is aggravated by the regional and religious domination that is established with the current state structure. This has institutionalised injustice in Nigeria and promotes agitations and conflicts that hinder economic growth and national development. “According to Pope Paul VI, ‘If you want peace, work for justice’. So, let us work for justice to achieve peace.” While recalling Achebe’s brilliant and celebrated analysis once more, Onovo concluded that Nigeria would surely continue to fail if the quality of leadership did not improve and for leadership to improve, Nigerians must reinforce the national ethos.