The success of LADOL has proven the efficacy of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs, as a framework for the development of new economy businesses and for maximising local content in low income high growth countries. Dr Amy Jadesimi, Managing Director of Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base, LADOL, who made the disclosure at the OECD Africa Forum, explained that there countries like Nigeria are full of untapped, easily addressable business opportunities, where new economy businesses can create new low cost, high return businesses through innovation and value added solutions for the local market. She noted that the companies of the future and those that will be the most profitable companies are those that are sustainable. She said companies that fail to embrace sustainability may soon become unviable. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She cautioned that the road to sustainably industrialising Africa will be a long one but that it will inevitably lead to peace and prosperity for the continent and the world. The first step is great international support from governments and investors for indigenous private companies across the continent – because these are the companies that will create the jobs. Over time organisations such as LADOL, which may start out supporting commodity focused industries will diversify and expand, becoming increasingly sustainable until we reach net zero. She also urged Western countries to regulate the actions of their companies and institutions in Africa – where many multinationals have been proven to instigate, promote and participate in practices that cause harm to the economies and the citizens in countries across Africa. “In as much as we recognise that the regulatory environment across Africa needs to improve, we should not continue to have conversations about regulation in Africa unless we also discuss how wealthier countries can better use their own laws and regulations to police the activities of their companies and representatives in Africa,” she said. She reiterated that financial regulation is long overdue stating that “we know that there are trillions of dollars currently invested in negative or low yielding assets in only ten financial markets across the world.