Dr. Eleanor Nwadinobi has emerged as the first Nigerian to become the President of Medical Women’s International Association (MWIA) in the one hundred year history of the Association. In a press release signed by Dr. Minnie Oseji, National President, Medical Women Association of Nigeria (MWAN) and who was the Campaign Manager of the ‘Nwadinobi for President’ campaign team, described Dr Nwadinobi’s emergence to the esteemed position of President of the world body as a very proud moment for Nigeria, especially medical doctors. She further spoke of the great expectations from Dr Nwadinobi and believes that her tenure will bring about critical interventions in women’s health issues and unsurpassed visibility for Medical Women’s International Association worldwide, which will no doubt, have a positive impact on the health status of women and children in Nigeria. It will be recalled that Dr. Eleanor Nwadinobi, was elected unopposed and inaugurated as the President-elect during the Association’s 100th Anniversary (Centennial) Congress on July 28, 2019 in New York, United States of America. Dr Eleanor Nwadinobi, however, became the substantive President on December 01, 2019 following the resignation of the then serving President, Dr Clarissa Fabre, from the United Kingdom. The Medical Women’s International Association (MWIA) through its Executive Committee, at its meeting held on December 01, 2019 and in keeping with the Statutes and Bye-laws of MWIA, unanimously endorsed Dr Nwadinobi, as the substantive President with effect from that date. Dr. Minnie Oseji, National President of MWAN, further stated that, “this is the first time in the 100 year history of MWIA, that a Nigerian will occupy the position of the President. We, therefore, heartily congratulate the Centennial President of the Medical Women’s International Association (MWIA), Dr. Eleanor Nwadinobi and pray for her, to have a fruitful tenure”. Medical Women’s International Association (MWIA) is the global association of female medical doctors. It has branches in over 90 countries. The Association turned one hundred years this year and a special and colorful congress tagged, the Centennial Congress was held in the United States of America, where the Association, was first established. The four-day event took place in New York, from July 25 – 28, 2019. Dr Eleanor’s investiture at that occasion was witnessed by Ambassador Fatima Kyari Mohammed, Ambassador/ African Union Permanent Observer to the UN, also by Consul General of Nigeria to USA, Ben Okoyen. In attendance at other events during the 4-day conference were Mr David Roosevelt, grandson of President Fredrick Delano Roosevelt, 32nd President of the United States of America and Eleanor Roosevelt and Gloria Stienam, leading feminist activist and journalist Dr Nwadinobi’s passion for the Medical Women’s Association of Nigeria (MWAN) and Medical Women’s International Association (MWIA) is evident in her commitment for more than 30 years during which she served the Association in several capacities at the State, National and International levels. Dr Nwadinobi joined the Medical Women’s Association of Nigeria through its Enugu branch in 1982 and rose to become President of the Enugu branch in 1997. In 2005, Dr Nwadinobi was elected as the National President of Medical Women’s Association of Nigeria. At the International level, she has served on the scientific, ethics and resolution committees and has chaired the Finance committee. Dr. Eleanor Ann Nwadinobi is a medical doctor and a health, gender and human rights expert with a European Union masters degree in Human rights and Democratization (EMA) from Venice, Italy. She is a Fellow of the African Arts and Culture (FAAC). Eleanor is the founding Co-Chair, Steering Committee of Every Woman Treaty, an international group calling for a Global treaty to end Violence Against Women. Dr. Nwadinobi is the co- country representative for the Working Group on Women, Youth, Peace and Security for UNOWAS. Over her 37-year career, Dr Nwadinobi has contributed to the Development Agenda in the last decade as Women, Peace and Security expert with DFID – Funded Nigeria Stability and Reconciliation Programme, NSRP. An erudite scholar with multiple stars, she is a Gender expert, ECOWAS Early warning Directorate, Lead researcher, Gender Based Violence ( GBV) World Bank – Women Initiative for Socio-Economic Engagement (Women for Nigeria), Lead researcher for Children on the street with ECOWAS, Gender adviser, Conflict, Stability and Security Fund (CSSF) Foreign and Commonwealth office, Team lead and Gender expert on drafting team for African Union (AU), Stabilization, Recovery and Resilience strategy for the Lake Chad basin countries (Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria). She is also the Gender Adviser to Tony Blair Institute on Supporting leaders Programme in Nigeria, Nigeria Policing Pro- gramme and Spotlight Initiative consultant to the UN for drafting Nigeria’s strategy on eliminating GBV. Dr Nwadinobi sits on the Board of several International and National Organisations including Blossoms of the Vine Fellowship (BVF) and Widows Development Organisation (WiDO). She is also a recipient of several International awards and has authored several publications.  