OWERRI  – Upon the restoration of democracy in the country in 1999, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which formed the federal government with former military Head of State – Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as president was quite ubiquitous in the Imo state and the entire southeast. Populated by the political heavy weights in the state with a renowned accountant, Chief Achike Udenwa as governor, the party not only bestroded the state like a colossus, but tremendously aroused the political consciousness of the average Imo electorate who saw the need for active participation in the nation’s electoral process. Having driven the opposition into political oblivion, the party later commenced a comprehensive grassroots transformation which indeed imbued greater percentage of the people with a sense of belonging in governance. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Curiously, the body of the once dreaded redoubtable rock of gibralta later began to crack – no thanks to persistent intra-party squabbles which mostly reared its ugly head at the twilight days of the preparations for the 2007 general elections. The bone of contention was the issue of who would succeed Chief Achike Udenwa as governor in line with the Charter of Equity which rotates the governorship seat among the three zones of Imo East (Owerri zone), Imo West (Orlu zone) and Imo North (Okigwe zone). Udenwa is from Orlu zone and Owerri zone having produced the late Chief Evan Enwerem as governor, all agreed in unison that the exalted office should go to Imo North (Okigwe zone). With an unquenchable interest in the gubernatorial race, a two time senator from the zone (Imo North) and a major financier of the party, Ifeanyi Godwin Araraume was to engage the party in a fierce running battle which the major pillars of the party resisted – a situation that eventually paved the way for ex-governor Ikedi Ohakim of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA) to clinch power on the platter of Gold. Ohakim was reportedly foisted on the party by Udenwa and his teeming political disciples who for inexplicable reasons vowed never to have anything to do with the Araraume governorship project. Ohakim who later defected to the PDP had his second term ambition aborted in 2011 when Owelle Rochas Anayo Okorocha emerged like a dark horse in the governorship ring on the platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). Relying heavily on his past goodwill to the people of the state mainly through his Rochas Foundation College which offers scholarship to bright but indigent students, Okorocha who hails from Ogboko, in the Ideato South council area of the state with the backing of the electorate effectively dislodged Ohakim from the Olympian height of power. Invariably, Okorocha ostensibly guided by intuition and visions later dumped the APGA that brought him to power and embraced a nascent political configuration – the All Progressive Congress (APC). Undaunted by the initial outcry that trailed his action, the multi-billionaire businessman turned politician remained resolute and single handed solidified and entrenched the party in the political psyche of the people. As the Alpha and Omega in the broom wielding party, the former governor, now senator for Imo West (Orlu) made incursions in other states of the South East where the APC was previously dreaded and despised as an anathema. Until the commencement of preparations for the 2019 general elections, Okorocha operated the party like an Army general in a war front whose words and orders were not to be challenged by his troop. In an irony of fate, the crises that rocked the PDP and which ultimately sang its nunc dimitis in 2011 was to equally consume the APC last year following Okorocha’s insistence on imposing his son-in-law Uche Nwosu on the people as his successor. The fierce resistance by the party hierarchy to this inevitably polarized the party into 2 diametrically opposed antagonistic camps – thus giving birth to a coalition led by Senator Hope Uzodinma, now governor of the state. Although he ran for the senatorial election on the platform of the APC, Okorocha was to move Uche Nwosu and his die-hard supporters to the fledging Action Alliance (AA) where he (Nwosu) eventually picked the party’s governorship ticket and ran for the election, just as Uzodinma who was the party’s favourite equally faced the gubernatorial competition. Chief Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP who was declared winner by INEC was to face a legal battle waged by the aggrieved parties and which finally came to an end on Tuesday 14th January 2019 when the Supreme Court in a unanimous judgment voided the election of Chief Ihedioha and declared Uzodinma the winner of the 9th March 2019 governorship election in the state. The crash of Ihedioha and the ascendancy of Uzodinma to power has since opened a new chapter in the political colouration of the state. Investigation by the Daily Independent revealed that the APC which, during and after the election was a house divided against itself has since reconciled their differences and is now one political family. To be sure, Senator Okorocha who was a principal rabid opponent of Uzodinma during the election not only congratulated the latter on his victory at the Supreme Court, but also witnessed his swearing-in at the Hero’s Square in Owerri along with his teeming supporters who chanted solidarity songs for Uzodinma. Chief Chidi Ibeh – a close Associate of Okorocha and a former Commissioner of Information said “as you can see, the state has been calm since the Supreme Court ruling and the people are happy. The victory of Senator Uzodinma is a good thing to the APC. We are now one family and there is no division again in our party. I can assure you that with Senator Hope Uzodinma, Imo will witness an unprecedented development and transformation because Uzodinma has the capacity to deliver”. In the same vein, Chief Romanus Egbuladike (Sir White) – a chieftain of the APC and close ally of Okorocha said “yes, there is definitely going to be a re-alignment. As you know Owelle (Okorocha) and his men all witnessed the inauguration of the governor and it shows that all the APC members are now one and there are no more factions. Hope is my governor and I have to give him 100% support even though I did not work for him”. A highly competent source told our correspondent that both Senator Ifeanyi Araraume and Uche Nwosu had already collapsed their structures into that of the APC while a good number of members of the state House of Assembly have initiated measures to defect to the APC. Already, the private residences of Okorocha, Uzodinma and Araraume have virtually become a political pilgrimage as politicians seeking one favour or the other from the new government troop there daily. What however appears to be cog in the wheel of the rapprochement venture is the modality for sharing of principal offices. The Uzodinma camp having demonstrated absolute loyalty and support to their principal when it mattered most are said to be insisted on having upper hands – a position which Okorocha and Araraume are not in a hurry to acquiesce. Aside this, an unseen hand from Abuja is reportedly leading the reconciliation mission among the warring parties. This, according to in insider is to paper the cracked halls and to avoid exposing the new government to public hate, contempt and disdain, moreso as not a few indigenes want Uzodinma to distance himself from Okorocha and Araraume.