GOMBE – Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, Wife of the President, has thanked the people of Gombe State for their patience and support to her husband as she sends food items to the less privileged in the state. The food items meant for the less privileged in the society consisted of 1,000 (50kg) bags of rice, 600 cartons of Spaghetti noodles and 300 jerry cans (25litres) of vegetable oil. Represented by the Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Office of the First Lady, Barrister Aliyu Abdullahi, Mrs. Buhari commended the people of Gombe State for their show of solidarity, love and support to President Muhammadu Buhari’s Government especially during general elections. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She said the Federal Government was aware of the laudable achievements by the new Gombe administration on various aspects of human endeavours and pledged further collaboration on areas of interest. Flagging off the distribution, Wife of the Gombe State Governor, Hajiya Asma’u Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, said the human spirited initiatives being pursued  by Aisha Buhari through her pet project, “Future Assured’ were  in tune with Gombe State administration’s programmes targeting at the empowerment of youths, women and other vulnerable groups. She said meeting the immediate needs of a common man should be a matter of priority to every responsible person, as such, Gombe state would ensure close and sustained partnership with the Federal Government and other non-government organisations in developing initiatives that have direct bearing on the lives of the citizenry. She disclosed that a monitoring team had been set up to ensure a fair distribution process and appealed to the representatives of the benefiting individuals and groups to be fair and just in distributing the items. The food distribution programme targets the less privileged members of the society, including, orphans, widows, people with disabilities as well as religious groups, associations and others. Earlier In her welcome address, Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Naomi Joel Awak, said within a short period of Governor Inuwa Yahaya’s stewardship, vulnerable groups and associations now attest to his administration’s commitment in improving their living standard. She recalled the recent interaction between the governor and persons with disabilities on the occasion of World Disability Day, saying such disposition is a demonstration of his resolve in running an all-inclusive government regardless of social status.