Owerri – Some indigenes of Imo State Thursday staged a protest over the January 14 Supreme Court judgment which sacked Emeka Ihedioha and declared Senator Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as governor of the state. Security agents were stationed at strategic junctions in the metropolis apparently to ensure that the peaceful protest march was not hijacked by hoodlums. The protesters and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) assembled at the sacred Ugwu Ekwema, along the busy Mbaise/Egbu road in the state metropolis in the early hours of the day from where they moved into various parts of the town, chanting solidarity songs. They carried placards bearing various inscriptions such as ‘We Totally Reject the Supreme Court Imposition on Imo’, ‘Imo People will Never Accept an Unelected Governor’, ‘Supreme Court must Reverse this Dubious Judgment’, ‘Imo People Never Elected Hope Uzodinma Governor’, ‘Ihedioha is our Elected Governor’, etc. Addressing the protesters at the popular Fire Service Roundabout, the former secretary to the state government, Uche Onyeaguocha, regretted that the Supreme Court declared a man who did not win an election as governor of the state. He stressed that Senator Uzodinma who finished a distant fourth in the 2019 governorship election was wrongfully declared as governor of the state, and that the state would never accept such an imposition by the Supreme Court. Onyeaguocha maintained that the justices of the Supreme Court, who had messed up themselves by delivering such a dubious judgment, must redeem their image by reversing the judgment and restoring Emeka Ihedioha, who was the duly elected governor of the state. He vowed that the people would continue the protest until the Supreme Court did the right thing. According to him, “The Supreme Court declared a man who did not win an election as governor and the Supreme Court knows that they have messed up. “They know that they have brought shame to the Nigerian judiciary. The judgment is unacceptable to Nigerians and to Imo people in particular.” He added: “The protest is to give the Supreme Court the opportunity to correct the grave error in their judgment which has made the Nigerian judiciary a laughing stock in the comity of nations. “We are asking them to vacate that dubious judgment by restoring Emeka Ihedioha as the duly elected governor because it is inexplicable for the Supreme Court to declare a man who finished a distant fourth as a winner. We will continue this protest till we get justice.” Also, acting state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Martins Ejiogu, said the Supreme Court should restore Emeka Ihedioha, who was duly elected by the people of Imo State, as it was a great disservice to deny the people of their choice. “We are insisting that the Supreme Court should restore the duly elected governor of the state, Emeka Ihedioha. “The Supreme Court has to restore their honour and confidence of Nigerians in the judiciary by reversing the dubious judgment against the people of Imo State because what they did was a great disservice to the people of the state,” he said. In the same vein, Martins Opara, former director-general, Imo State Orientation Agency, said Imo people would not accept the imposition by the Supreme Court. “Imo people have resolved not to accept any imposition by the Supreme Court because even the man they want to impose on the state knows that he did not even win any election in 2019,” Opara stated.