Lagos – The Federal Government has reportedly issued a directive effectively ending exclusive rights in broadcasting sporting events in the country This means that MultiChoice’s monopoly on the live airing of high-profile sporting events has come to an end. The directive was one of the series of measures outlined by Alhaji Lai Mohammed, minister of Information and Culture, who directed National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to implement to sanitise and re-position the broadcast industry recently. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In a statement was made available to newsmen by Mr Segun Adeyemi, his Special Assistant on President (Media), the Minister specifically directed NBC to implement a new regulation mandating broadcasters and exclusive licensees to share such exclusive rights with other broadcasters. ”This regulation prevents the misuse of monopoly or market power or anti-competitive and unfair practices by a foreign or local broadcaster to suppress other local broadcaster in the television and radio markets. “This is so, having removed exclusivity from all content in Nigeria and mandated the sharing of all content upon the payment of commercially viable fees,” he said. Mohammed said the new regulation is contained in the report of the committee which he set up to work out the modalities for implementing the recommendations approved by President Muhammadu Buhari to re-position the broadcast industry. The minister inaugurated the NBC Reform Implementation Committee on October 10, 2019 and the committee chaired by Prof. Armstrong Idachaba submitted its report on November 19 same years. The minister stressed that the break in monopoly will boost reach and also maximise utilisation by all broadcasters of premium content, in order to grow their platforms and investment in other content. It would be recalled that Mohammed, last year, said that the Federal Government was determined to end all forms of monopoly in broadcasting because “it is detrimental to the actualisation of the immense potential in the industry”. The minister, at a meeting with Online Publishers, in Lagos had said that a situation where a few people corner a chunk of the industry to the detriment of others, especially the teeming and talented youths, was totally unacceptable and untenable. “Monopolies stunt growth, kill talents and discourage creativity. “In the case of Nigeria, it’s the monopoly of content that breeds anti-competition practices. “You cannot use your financial or whatever power to corner and hold on tight to a chunk of the market, preventing others from having access. “Such monopolies are crumbling everywhere in the world and Nigeria cannot be left out. High-profile sporting events, especially for well-loved sports, particularly soccer, are currently only available to subscribers of DSTV. Specifically, DSTV has the monopoly on live airing of English Premier League and UEFA Champions League in Nigeria. The era of liberalisation is, therefore, expected to witness the sporting events being accessible to other pay-TVs and free to air platforms in the country. With the new directive, television viewers, especially lovers of sports may witness an end to MultiChoice’s monopoly on the live airing of high-profile sporting events.