AKURE – Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has warned civil servants in the state to stay off politics, particularly in the forthcoming governorship election in the state. He particularly warned them against wearing any paraphernalia or memorabilia with political inscriptions, including his during the electioneering period. The governor handed down the warning on Thursday during special prayers organised by the state government to mark the first working day in the New Year held at the Governor’s Office, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Asking the public workers to leave politics for politicians, Akeredolu said: ”I don’t want any civil servant to wear endorsement T-shirt for me. Civil servants should not be involved in politics. “I don’t want workers to do like they did before I came on board. They should focus on their jobs and let politicians play politics. “We are all political animals, but workers should stay away from politics. And if they want to do, it should be done moderately.” He, however, assured the workers the new N30,000 minimum wage would be paid as soon as the organized labour and the state government agreed at the ongoing negotiations. The governor said: ”The Organised Labour and Government have been having discussions and negotiations and we are fine-tuning our conclusions to ensure that we come up with most acceptable and sustainable salary structure considering the financial strength of the state. “I wish to assure you that payment of the new wage would commence as soon as ongoing discussion and negotiation are concluded.“ Akeredolu seized the opportunity to reel out some of the achievements of his administration in the last three years, referring to massive infrastructural development across the three senatorial districts of the state. He revealed how his administration was able to record unprecedented improvement in revenue generation and lay a solid foundation for the sustainable economic turn-around of the state. The governor, however, described prompt payment of workers salaries as an obligation, saying it should not be seen as an achievement. “In doing all of these and more, we have kept faith with the demands of workers’ welfare. In spite of our dire financial challenges, we have been able to fulfil our promises of regular payment of workers’ salaries and other obligations to the people of the state.”