Abuja – Government policy is to change narrative in governance. Every policy has one implication or the other on the people, either positively or negatively. But in all, policy is to change the old ways of doing things, with attendant effect on the citizens, depending from which perspective the policy is been viewed. The same are bills passed by the National Assembly. Bills altered the course of doing things if passed into law, that is, if assented to by the President or vetoed by the lawmakers. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, recently gave insight into what the National Assembly will do and what it has achieved so far in the past six months it was inaugurated and the impact the bills passed will have on the people. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Even though some criticisms have been trailing the actions and inactions of the National Assembly, but the bottom line is the impact of the actions and inactions on the lives of the people. Lawan had boasted during his meeting with journalists in December last year that the National Assembly, especially the Senate, has been up and doing in its primary responsibilities, which is lawmaking and its record compares favourably to any other before it in the history of the nation. The President of the Senate pointed out that within the first six months of its inauguration, the ninth Senate had passed Six Bills into law, four of them members’ bills. The first of these bills, according to him, is the Deep Off-shore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts Act CAP D3 LFN 2004 (Amendment Bill, 2019). Others, according to him, are the Appropriation Bill, 2020 and the Finance Bill 2019. The three other bills that the National Assembly passed are the Public Procurement Act 2007 (Amendment) Bills, 2019; which the lawmakers did to sanitise the public procurement process and curtail the incidence and influence of corruption. Explaining the impact of the Deep Off-shore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts Act CAP D3 LFN 2004 (Amendment Bill, 2019 on the lives of the people, Lawan said that “it had become absolutely necessary for us as a country to pass the Bill so that we can generate more revenues from our endowments. I had on that occasion assured that the National Assembly was determined to pass this bill and that it will be a precursor to our determination to pass the Petroleum Industry Bill next year. “The Deep Off-shore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts Bill after being passed by NASS was promptly assented into law by President Muhammadu Buhari on November 4, 2019. “The passage and signing of this law demonstrates what two institutions can achieve when they are guided in their actions by patriotism. This law will significantly increase accruals to the government from crude oil contracts. It has also ended our years of inexplicable failure to call in returns due to us from our joint venture partners. As a result of this law, we have expanded a critical revenue stream and ensured more funds will flow into the treasury that will enable the government to execute its budgets and critical developmental projects.” On what Nigerians stand to gain on the passage of Finance Bill, the President of the Senate said that passing it would reform Nigeria’s tax system for enhanced implementation and effectiveness. “We passed the Finance Bill, 2019 on 21 November, 2019.  The Bill amended seven (7) existing tax and fiscal policy laws  (Companies Income Tax Act, 2004; Value Added Tax Act, 2007; Customs and Excise Tariff (Consolidation) Act, 2004; Personal Income Tax Act, 2007; Capital Gains Tax Act, 2007; Stamp Duties Act, 2007; and Petroleum Profit Tax Act, 2004) to reform Nigeria’s tax system for enhanced implementation and effectiveness. “The Federal Government took the initiative to reform the tax system so as to create an enabling business environment and reduce the tax burden for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).  The objectives of the amendments include: Promoting fiscal equity by mitigating instances of regressive taxation; Reforming domestic tax laws to align with global best practices; Introducing tax incentives for investment in infrastructure and capital markets; Supporting small businesses in line with on-going ‘Ease of Doing Business Reforms’ and; Raising revenues for the Government,” he said. Disclosing that the Finance Bill also provides a framework for the 2020 Budget, Lawan said that the promptly passage of the Appropriation Bill was in line with their commitment to changing the current unhealthy and unpredictable budget cycle to a January to December fiscal calendar. “This structural change and the prompt passage of the Appropriation Bill will give the government a full year to implement the budget. We believe this measure will enhance planning, implementation and monitoring of the budget by the relevant organs and agencies and significantly improve our annual budget performance,” Lawan said. According to the Deep Off-shore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts Bill document, Section 5 of the principal Act, which was amended now reads, “Royalties shall be calculated on a field basis. The royalty shall be at a rate per centum of the chargeable volume of the crude oil and condensates produced from the relevant area in the relevant period as follows: In deep offshore greater than 200 metres water depth – 10 per cent; in frontier/inland basin – 7.5 per cent. “Royalty by price is adopted in order to allow for royalty reflexivity based on changing prices of crude oil, condensates and natural gas. This also replaces the necessity for Section 16 of the principal Act. “The royalty based on price shall be identical for the various water depths in deep offshore – beyond 200m water depth, including frontier acreages for crude oil and condensates. “The royalty rates shall be based on increase that exceeds $20 per barrel, and shall be determined separately for crude oil and condensates as follows: From $0 and up to $20 per barrel – 0 per cent; above $20 and up to $60 per barrel – 2.5 per cent; above $60 and up to $100 per barrel – four per cent; above $100 and up to $150 per barrel – eight per cent.” A new Section 18, which criminalised any abuse of the law and prescribed punishments, read, “any person who fails to comply with any obligation imposed by any provision of the bill commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not below N500,000,000 or an imprisonment for a period not (more or less: not indicated) than five years or both.” The President of the Senate noted during the debate and passage of the Bill, that Nigeria would be at least $1.5 billion richer in 2020 as a result of the amended bill. Public Procurement Act (Amendment) Bill, 2019 (SBs 106,109, and 158) which was passed early December seeks to review the mobilization fee for contractors, create an e-procurement model and provide a time frame for procurement processes. This, according to stakeholders, who spoke on the issue, would go a long way to address corruption in procurement exercise.