President Muhammadu Buhari has told his Ghanaian counterpart, President Nana Akufo-Addo, in plain terms that the chances of his ordering the reopening of Nigerian borders were very slim at present. He said this against the backdrop of pleas from the Ghanaian
president that he should reconsider his stance owing to the stifling of
business activities in the neighbouring countries. Both leaders held the discus
sion at a bilateral meeting on Monday in London at the sidelines of UK-Africa
Investment Summit 2020. Buhari said the only condition that would make him reconsider
his position would be the report of a presidential committee set up for the
purpose. “We will get things sorted out. Our farmers, especially
those who grow rice, now have a market, and are happy, and we are also
concerned about hard drugs and weapons. “Once the committee comes up with its
recommendations, we will sit and consider them,” the president said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While trying to make Akufo-Addo see reasons with him, Buhari
said he didn’t order the closure of Nigeria’s borders solely because of food
products, particularly rice, but that arms and ammunition, including hard
drugs, were being ferried into Nigeria recklessly. According to the Nigerian
president, he could not keep his eyes open and watch youths being destroyed
through cheap hard drugs, and compromised security caused by unbridled influx
of small arms. “When most of the vehicles carrying rice and other food
products through our land borders are intercepted, you find cheap hard drugs
and small arms under the food products. This has terrible consequences for any
country,” President Buhari said. He said it was regrettable that the partial border closure
was having “negative economic impact on our neighbours,” but added that “we
cannot leave our country, particularly the youths, endangered”. The president said the Sahel region was awash with small
arms, which accounted for severe security challenges in Mali, Chad, Burkina
Faso, Niger, and Nigeria. “We are in fact the biggest victims,” he lamented.
President Akufo-Addo, while showing understanding of the need for Nigeria to
protect her citizens, pleaded for “an expedited process because the Nigerian
market is significant for certain categories of business people in Ghana”.