ABAKALIKI – The people of Ngwongwo in Ishiagu community of Ivo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State on Tuesday banished a middle-aged man over an allegation of witchcraft. The man, who was identified as Ezemuo was sent packing after he was allegedly caught performing incantations at the entrance gate of a Chinese mining firm (name withheld ) located near a junction connecting Ebonyi  to Enugu states from Isiagu axis. It was gathered that the suspect hails from Abia State, but had lived for years in the area doing clothing business. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A member of the State Vigilance group, Neighborhood Watch, from the area, Mr. Aja Mgbo, who confirmed the development, told our reporter that the suspect was caught red-handed indulging in the act, adding that he confessed to have been in the business of witchcrafts for years. Mgbo said his community forbade witchcraft and killing of people, which was why they unanimously took a quick and drastic action against the suspect. “We caught the man doing incantation in our junction, the one that connects us to Enugu state.  He was doing the incantation near a new Chinese company there. It was even the people inside the company that first saw him and drew the attention of the villagers. After searching him, we saw some fetish items such as local chalk (nzu), flat stone, etc. “When they started beating him, he confessed to have been indulged in witchcraft. He said he had made many people to be involved in accidents. He also said he buys goods and make the sellers to forget to ask him for money and other atrocities he confessed to have done. “Nobody knew he was into such a thing. He sells clothes at Eke (a local market in the area) and has lived here for a long time. He is living in a rented apartment at Ngwongwo village, which is my village. “And I don’t think he is married, because he is not living with any woman. So, that is why our people expelled him, because we don’t need such people.  We used a car and a tricycle to park his property and sent him away,” he said. Asked whether they reported the incident to the Police, Mgbo said they never bothered to do so. When contacted, the Ebonyi State Police Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Loveth Odah, said she was not aware of the incident, but promised to contact the DPO, Ishiagu Police division for inquiries.