E-commerce platform Jumia Nigeria has disclosed that Nigeria has become the breeding ground for its leadership position on the continent. Jeremy Hodara, its Co-Founder/Co-CEO, who spoke during a media interaction at the Jumia 2020 Vision Sharing Breakfast in Lagos recently, said the country is the firm’s largest market where it innovates, try new things and get results which guide it in other parts of the continent where it operates. Hodara, while giving an overview of the firm’s performance last year, said the year was indeed good for the operation of the firm, adding that the management will continue to build on and accelerate the path of profitability which it started last year. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, the way shoppers use the platform has changed tremendously with the deepening of smartphone penetration, adding that shoppers now use their devices to shop. As a first country where e-commerce started in Africa, Hodara said the platform has had a positive impact on the ecosystem. He said, for instance, that the platform has promoted gender empowerment as 40 per cent of vendors on the platform are women. Also, Juliet Anammah, former CEO, who has been promoted to the position of Chairwoman, Jumia Nigeria and Head, Institutional Affairs, Jumia Africa, said the firm has deepened its presence across the country. Juliet said more rural communities have been integrated, stressing that communities such as Bonny Island, with peculiar terrain, are now covered. She said 30 new logistics partners have been integrated while adoption has also been increased appreciably. Juliet added that cash on delivery is now possible in 15 cities in the north and southeast, while 1000 new hires, including 30 at management levels and above. Massimiliano Spalazzi, the new CEO, Jumia Nigeria, said the firm’s activities this year will be anchored on four major pillars which he said are giving consumers access to purchase online; enable vendors to grow their business; connect third party partners; and empower the firm’s team.