ABUJA – Federal Competitive and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) has invaded Chinese shop for inspection of their products over quality compromise. Mr. Babatunde Irukera, FCCPC Director General of FCCPC, who briefed newsmen at the supermarket premises, explained that his Commission swiftly carried out a sting operation, following credible information it received about the activities of the supermarket. “We have credible information that there is a supermarket that is discriminating against certain nationals with respect to places they need to shop across the display. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “When that allegation was confirmed, we performed a sting operation with the aim of enforcing the rights of consumers to shop publicly in the supermarket. “Some of the products are medications that do not have NAFDAC number. At some points, we also found cold rooms with refrigerators for sea foods and other meat products. “Our concern now is about the propriety of the sea foods and meat products. Some of them have expiration date; well over fifty years from now, some of them had expiration date that is over a year ago. “Some of them were openly displayed, no packaging, no information that will provide the origin, but they are obviously from China. “Looking at some of them, there were some discolorations, obviously what seems to be a quality compromise, so it became very clear that we needed to move in to make sure that those products do not move into the market. “One of the operatives also said that he saw an Asian ethnic restaurant, where the food is cooked and sold to the public and so, that is a matter of concern. “Any the reason why our concern was heightened is that it is a very sensitive time worldwide, considering the origin of these products, which is China and the evidence of viral infections. “We felt in the absence of appropriate records and protocols and approvals showing on the products, we better proceed in abundant of precaution by quarantining these products and shutting the place down. “The supermarket sells all other kinds of products, so we think that in the interest of ensuring that consumers still have access to patronizing a location they liked, we quarantined only the ones that are not safe and allow the business to continue to operate.”