OSOGBO – Three persons have so far been arrested by security operatives in connection with an alleged attack on Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, his wife, Alhaja Kafayat Oyetola, members of the state cabinet and other dignitaries during an entertainment night programme, fireworks and prayer session organised by the Osun State government to herald the New Year in the state. The State Police Command, through its Public Relations Officer, Mrs. Folasade Odoro, confirmed the arrest, saying the command had commenced interrogation of the suspects over the unfortunate incident. It would be recalled that some miscreants had attempted to throw stones towards the direction of dignitaries, including the governor, his wife, Osun Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji, Chief of Staff to Governor, Dr. Charles Diji Akinola, Osun State APC Chairman, Gboyega Famodun, cabinet members and other invited guests at the event. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Before the event was disrupted, there were music performances by various artistes as well as the presentation of gifts. Crossover fireworks and music performances is not new to the residents of the state. It became an annual event since December 2010 when Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola assumed the mantle of leadership of the state. It has since being peaceful and eventful attracting crowd from across the state. Religious leaders irrespective of their denominations were normally invited to offer prayers to usher the people and government of the state to a new prosperous year. Eyewitness account revealed that Governor Oyetola had already addressed the gathering and about to leave the arena while performers had gone on stage to entertain people at about 1. am, when some young men numbering about 30, started throwing stones at the direction of the dignitaries. When the situation became intense, security operatives in particular the Department of State Services (DSS) personnel fired several gunshots into the air to disperse the crowd and whisked the governor and other dignitaries present out of the venue. The incident, which looked like an offshoot of the raging rift between Oyetola and his predecessor in office, auf Aregbesola, now Minister of Interior, has further pronounced the no love lost relationship between the two political gladiators in the state. Credible sources told Sunday INDEPENDENT that the miscreants who were allegedly sponsored by some aggrieved persons against Oyetola and his government had planned to boo him at the turbaning ceremony of Aregbesola as Amirul Waziri Musulimi of Osun State by the League of Imams and Alfas held recently, but the absence of Oyetola, who went to Saudi Arabia for Lesser Hajj, saved the situation. The source added that some of the aggrieved persons are already talking about giving him (Oyetola) the Ambode’s treatment in order to make it difficult for him to have control on the party structure in the state. Some ex-commissioners who served under Aregbesola but lost out to be reappointed were also said to be nursing grudges and are allegedly ganging up against the current administration. Further investigation by Sunday INDEPENDENT revealed that one of the senators representing the state at the National Assembly is also working to stiffen the control of the party for Oyetola. However, following the rift between the two camps, Osun APC has since been polarised into groups. Investigation conducted revealed that some political groups within the ruling party in the state have been holding clandestine meetings based on the division on how to retain the party’s supremacy ahead of the forthcoming congress where new executives of the party would be elected. Members of the groups are no longer attending regular party meetings because of the division. The division has also affected the administration of local government council development area as Aregbesola’s camp is in control of majority of council chairmen and councilors. But, the media aide to Governor Oyetola, Ismail Omipidan, said the governor was not attacked. He said: “It was not an attack on the governor and members of his cabinet. During festivities, there is always exuberance by youths. Two groups were fighting outside where we were holding our programme. “If it were to be an attack, I am sure by now, we would have heard that the governor security men shot two or three people in an attempt to rescue their principal. “So, it was just some miscreants who were fighting outside where we were holding our crossover. Immediately after we left the venue, we still went to Ansar-ud-Deen, Sabo, where a prayer was held to usher in the New Year.” Also, the state chairman of the APC, Gboyega Famodun, debunked the attack on Oyetola, saying there was no basis for it. Famodun, in a statement issued by his media consultant, Kola Olabisi, said, “There cannot be any basis to attack Governor Oyetola who is reputed for giving the people of the state qualitative governance. “It is on record that Oyetola’s government has been paying full salaries to the state civil servants since its inception as and when due, while some of the inherited on-going capital projects like road construction/rehabilitation are also being attended to with adequate attention been giving to primary healthcare delivery programme in all the wards across the state,” Famodun explained. The state party chairman wondered that a disagreement between two urchins at the gathering could be equated to attack of the governor and some members of his cabinet. On division of the party, Famodun also denied it saying the party is united and supreme. However, it was gathered that Oyetola and Aregbesola on Thursday visited Chief Bisi Akande, a former governor of the state and Interim National chairman of the ruling APC. The meeting between the trio lasted for over four and half hours where they were said to have discussed state matters. In a post on Friday by Ismail Omipidan, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, he said, “To celebrate the New Year, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola,  Governor, The State of Osun, and his predecessor and Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, were at Ila Orangun, the country home of a foremost political leader, Chief Bisi Akande, yesterday. “After the merriment, the trio spent quality time, four and half hours to be precise, discussing state matters. Osun TI N DARA O.” Akande and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a national leader of the APC, are said to be working to resolve the political differences between Oyetola and Aregbesola, which have led to confrontation between their supporters.