LAGOS – To commemorate this year’s International Day of Education, a civil society organization (CSO), Pa Philip Akintoye Development Foundation (PAPADEF), has in a bid to stress the importance of charting career paths for children and creating awareness for young people on Gender-Based Violence (GBV), took the sensitization programme to schools. At a sensitization session in Essy Golden College on Saturday, Joy Sokoya, trauma counselor from Mirabel Centre, took the students on sex abuse, educating them on the things that constitute danger and what signs to look out from abusers, stressing that experience had shown that violators were usually close members of the family like domestic servants, uncles, cousins, teachers and even parents in some cases. Sokoya said that in her line work they provide support for survivors of rape and sexual abuse, stressing that about 90 percent of their clients were children, which was why they had brought the conversation to children, especially when children were abused and threatened by the perpetrators. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Abused children are being forced to silent, sometimes threatened they would be killed if they tell. We used to think that sexual abuses are done by strangers; but that is a myth because they are done by people who have access to them. The essence of what we do is to build confidence in children. The moment the child starts communicating it is the right time to start education. We can’t wait for the children to get to five years before we start,” she said. The programme manager of PAPADEF, Yvonne Eweka, said the aim of the programme was to commemorate the International Day of Education, as well as send message to the younger people to take their education seriously and also sensitize them on the prevention of sexual abuse, which she regretted had been on the rise in recent time. Adam Opeloyeru, development enthusiast, said that goal setting would make the child plan and be focused on where he or she would want to go. He stressed that setting a measurable, realist and achievable goals in a child’s career path should be encouraged. While talking on the role of government in helping to improve education standards, Opeloyeru said, “I think government should be up with its budget on education, from local government to federal levels. There should be training for teachers, improved remuneration, to make them have passion for what they do”