 Abuja – The presidency has sent subtle warning to some thought leaders in Nigeria who recently advised the Federal Government not to jettison restructuring of the country as a means of staving off situations that precipitated civil war fifty years ago. In doing so, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said such suggestions were laced in inflammatory rhetoric meant to divide rather than uniting the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the presidential aide, the war served as a potent warning on the dangers of aggressive regionalism, ethnic baiting and political corruption. In a statement he made public on Wednesday, in Abuja, he alleged that some key players in the polity have failed to recognise these dangers and instead repeat its mistakes. He also said victims of the conflict and honour for those on both sides that lost their lives were not lost on the incumbent government, assuring that their tragedy shall be neither forgotten nor repeated. Recall that General Yakubu Gowon (rtd.), Nigeria’s former head of state, who ruled between 1966 and 1975; Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka and a host of other senior citizens had gathered in Lagos to review the civil war in Nigeria fifty years ago, where they candidly advised government on the need to guard against events that resulted in the war. But Shehu said as the nation commemorates 50 years of the end of the nation’s tragic civil war, the government remembers the victims of the conflict and honour those on both sides that lost their lives. “The war serves as a potent warning on the dangers of aggressive regionalism, ethnic baiting and political corruption. In it, we must forge common memory that can serve as a bridge to a future free from the ravages of sectarianism. “We remember the past to draw its lessons; on how we move forward together and live in peace. Unfortunately, there are some who fail to recognise them and instead repeat its mistakes, preaching inflammatory rhetoric meant only to divide. We call on all leaders and parties to moderate their language. “There were no victors in this war. Yet in rejecting division and embracing unity, we ensure those lives lost were not in vain,” he stated. At the conference organised by Nzuko Umunna and Ndigbo Lagos, in collaboration with civil society organisations in Lagos, to mark 50 years of the end of the civil war in Nigeria with the theme, ‘Never Again: Nigerian Civil War: 50 Years After’, Gowon, who was the head of state during the period had insisted that the war was inevitable at the time. Gowon, who was represented at the occasion, emphasised that despite the end of civil war 50 years ago, it still remained a reference point in the country’s political discourse. He had also noted that the war posed the greatest threat to the territorial integrity and unity of Nigeria and its promising multi-ethnic federation. He, however, said that as responsible leaders and citizens, it was pertinent to create enabling platforms for dialogue and proffer ideas on how the country’s citizens could live together in peace and harmony, stressing that Nigeria could not afford another civil war. He declared that it was only in a peaceful atmosphere that Nigeria could witness stability in its politics, economy, security, and development in all spheres, and called on all and sundry to ensure the country averted another civil war.