Distinguished Senator Victor Umeh, an estate surveyor turned politician, is the former National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). He represented the people of Anambra Central Senatorial District for 17 months in the 8th Senate. In spite of the short period he spent in the Upper Chamber, Umeh is believed to have made significant impact with his numerous valuable contributions to discussions and debates. He is also seen to have greatly affected the lives of his constituents through several programmes and projects he facilitated to his constituency. In this interview with MICHAEL JEGEDE, Chief Umeh x-rayed Nigeria’s over 59 years of nationhood and spoke on his 17-month sojourn in the Red Chamber. Excerpts: On October 1, 2019, Nigeria clocked 59 and in 2020, the country will be 60-year-old as an independent nation. Can it be said that the county has made meaningful progress in these years of nationhood? One would have expected that between 1960, when we freed ourselves from the clutches of colonialism and now, Nigeria would have been able to resolve its problems associated with lack of national cohesion. Sadly, the country has not been able to achieve the egalitarian unity that will propel collective development for the country as a nation. Nations after independence usually get stronger with the passage of time, by striving hard to handle issues that tend to divide the people, and get away from things that will constitute hurdles to national unity and development. But, the case of Nigeria appears to be a paradox. With the passage of time, Nigeria gets more divided instead of being more united. We’ve not been able to see ourselves as people of one country put together by God. Nigeria is still operating as a country with different countries inside it. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network What would you say is the cause of the problem? It’s failure of leadership. Nigeria is a very big country, the largest in terms of population in Africa. Though, we’ve not had credible census in a long time. All our population figures are projections over times. Therefore, it may be difficult to give the actual number of people in Nigeria. However, I believe that we have close to 200 million people now if not more. So, Nigeria is blessed with abundant human and natural resources. But, our leadership has not helped the country over time. The problem is not traceable to just the current leadership. It is something that has been there over time. We’ve been very unfortunate to have also gotten the country’s democracy disrupted in 1966 by a coup d’état. And the fallout of that Coup d’état led to counter coups and from counter coups the country slipped into a civil war. After that war, the centre could no longer hold, up till now! The people got so divided! You mean the country got further divided after the civil war resulting from the 1966 coup? Exactly, if that coup hadn’t taken place, our problem may not have been this bad today. Even though there were challenges in the country before the coup, but Nigeria was running a regional system of government – a parliamentary system of government – and the regions were pursuing development aggressively devoid of any problem. We had eastern, western and northern regions. We also had the mid-western region which was later created. And all these regions were developing at their own paces with the resources available to them. They were contributing royalties to the Federal Government of Nigeria. You could see that the speed of development was quite high. And people controlled the resources available to them in their various regions. But, that coup that came in January 1966 overthrew the democratic government in place and brought in a military government headed by Aguiyi Ironsi. Military officers were appointed to head the regional governments as governors. Auiyi Ironsi was assassinated in the counter-coup of July 1966 and Yakubu Gowon took over as the leader of the Nigeria military government. Gowon balkanised Nigeria into 12 states. With that, the regional governments were scrapped! There was nothing like regional government any more. The federal military government started controlling the states. Are you saying that we fared well under the regional system of government than what obtains today? There is the clamour for us today to return to regional government. And this is because in that regional government, there was minimum interference in the activities and governments of the regions by the federal government. Today, everything is centralised. It wasn’t so under the regional government. For instance, apart from the police at the federal level, we had regional police that were under the control of the regional government at that time. The whole clamour for restructuring today and the fair call for return to regional arrangement is because the arrangement we have now has not helped the country. You could see that without that coup the northern region would have done better than what the states in the north are doing today. The Northern Region, under the visionary leadership of the late Sardauna, Alhaji Sir Ahmadu Bello witnessed development. The Western Region did very well under Obafemi Awolowo. Under Michael Okpara, so much happened in the Eastern Region. And all the things they (the regional governments) achieved were from agric produce as the major source of income at that time. Nigeria was mainly an agrarian economy in the Northern, Eastern and Western regions. The Western Region had cocoa. The North had groundnut, cotton and other agric products, including cattle. The Eastern Region had palm produce, cassava and other agric products. So, the economy then revolved around agriculture. And things were a lot better. At least, those of us who were young before the war can tell you that life was better at that time than now. How did we move away from that agrarian economy? After the civil war we went into oil boom. Oil exploration exploded in the Niger Delta and Nigeria got used to oil money. Oil money started flowing under the command of the military leaders at that time. They didn’t even know what to do with money. And look at it, the oil money has corrupted Nigeria so badly that every state in Nigeria today depends on the oil money. Only very few states can survive today without Federal Allocation that they receive every month in Abuja as their share of the money accruing from the sales of crude oil. Everything produced in the oil-rich basins and states come to the centre for sharing. And sometimes the oil-producing states don’t get anything close to what others that don’t produce oil get. The oil boom should have been good for Nigeria if we have had purposeful leaderships over time. We would have been able to harness this oil money to develop other sectors of the economy – such as the agricultural and industrial sectors. Nigeria just became over time a consuming nation where you get the oil money, you share it and you spend the money on services and luxuries. That is why we’ve not made meaningful progress in our many years of nationhood. Why do you think we have not gotten it right as far as the leadership question of this country is concerned? Well, it is because of a number of things. The war brought distrust within the Nigerian nation. The Nigerian people no longer see themselves as one. Other nations of the world fought wars and they came out stronger. America, for example, fought so many wars. But, America today is prided as the strongest nation in the world. The different internal wars fought in America did not drag the country back. Rather, the country became stronger through those wars. The way to build a nation is to pass through stages of disagreements, particularly in the case of Nigeria, where we have so many ethnic nationalities that make up Nigeria. Regrettably, we have not been able to properly deal with the aftermath of the Nigerian civil war. The misgivings triggered off by the civil war are still there.  Ethnicity has remained a constant feature of Nigerian politics. There are about over three hundred ethnic nationalities in Nigeria. These are people who speak different languages; people who have different religions and cultures. All of them are found in the geographical enclave called Nigeria. Any nation that has this kind of configuration will certainly need exceptional and extra-ordinary leadership to keep the people together. And the only thing that can bring people together will be equity and fairness. Disappointingly, we have not had leaders (either through the military or civilian dispensation) who saw every ethnic nationality in Nigeria as an important part of the country. If we have had such people as leaders, Nigeria would have been very strong in its diversity. But it has not been so. It has been a situation where people who found themselves in power take power to the exclusion of others. And it has continued to generate tension. There is a growing disaffection over the way things have been done. Nigeria has continued to run a unitary system of government, never mind that they call it federal system of government. Nigeria is controlled from the centre. Whoever gets the mantle of leadership of the country controls everything happening in every part of Nigeria. Do you mean we run more of a unitary system as against the federal system that we claim to be operating? It is a Unitary system because we have a unitary police structure. Everything is unitary. Everything is domiciled at the centre. You only have branches in the states that are all controlled from the centre. Every apparatus of government is controlled by the president of Nigeria. The President controls everybody. Whoever emerges as the president of Nigeria controls all the structures in the country. You cannot complain. If you complain they will descend on you. This is the problem. And because we have not been able to ensure fairness and equity in the way the country is governed; you have people who hold grievances against the Nigerians state. People complain that they have been forgotten. People complain that they have been neglected and marginalised. The only way a leader of Nigeria can succeed will be when you see all parts of the country as your domain in terms of taking care of the needs of the people. So, you should not be talking about people who know you or people who come from your area. It is due to lack of nationalist spirit that these things are still found here. Look at Nigeria today, after over 59 years of nationhood, people will still want to see somebody as, okay – you are a Fulani, you are an Hausa man. Oh, you are a Yoruba, you are an Igbo. You are an Efik. You are an Ibibio man. You are an Ijaw man. You are a Tiv. You are from Jukun land. What you hear today in Nigeria are ethnic sentiments revolving and spiraling around all kinds of agitations within the country.  The people keep talking about the Ijaw nation, the Igbo nation, the Yoruba nation, the Hausa/Fulani Kingdom. Nobody is talking about the Nigerian nation. That is the problem we have. And I think that any person who finds himself in power, and of course, the current President who is in charge now, has a responsibility to unite all Nigerians. He must make every Nigerian to be proud of this country as his or her own. If that is not done, these divisions will continue until all of us will die! And it will not be good for our children to inherit it. Today, everything within Nigeria is seen through the prism of where it comes from.  This is not good for the unity and progress of our country.  If you set the standard and enforce it very strictly, with every sense of fairness, equity and justice, you begin to gain the confidence of the people. From your utterances, you appear to see Nigeria as having failed to make gains out of the civil war where the eastern part under the name ‘Biafra’ fought to separate and operate as a country? There was one debate I contributed to when I was in the Senate. It was a Bill sponsored by Senator Abubakar Kyari from Borno State. He sponsored a Bill for the Establishment of the Nigeria Defence and Research Development Council. I Seconded that Bill. And I used that opportunity to tell Nigeria that it failed in making gains out of the Nigerian civil war. During the civil war, the Biafran scientists built weapons of mass destruction. And when the war ended all those nuclear physicists from Biafra were sidelined – those who built those bombs. If the government of Nigeria had taken them and brought them together to develop warheads, they would have succeeded. That is what I am telling you that other nations of the world that fought wars made gains out of the wars. They use the experience of the wars, talents exposed during the wars to build their own country. Those professors and nuclear physicists that built those nuclear bombs, most of them have died, if not all. Nigeria didn’t make use of them. And we had Defence Industrial Corporation in Kaduna. They would have taken those men and put them there. They would have developed warheads for Nigeria. That is the way to grow.  Some people were able to refine petroleum products within Biafra during the war.  At that time we didn’t have refinery, but they refined their petroleum products. Why did they allow those people to waste and die away? Some of them left Nigeria and died in exile. So, that is what we are saying. You must build strength from your own people. And you should have that trust and the ability to say let bygone be bygone! Don’t you think that our leaders at all levels including National Assembly where you once belong  – should cover their faces in shame that we are still this backward in terms of development despite the huge human and natural resources at the country’s disposal? Sincerely speaking, I will say that we have failed our people. I was in the National Assembly for 17 months. When I was at the Senate if you kept track with my contributions, I was championing the cause of equity and fairness to all people of Nigeria. In all my interventions through bills, motions and all that, I was talking about how to run an all-inclusive Nigeria. I was saying that no part of Nigeria should be left behind in anything we do. If you speak to people who cover Proceedings at the Senate or at the National Assembly, they will tell you that any time I intervened, it was on a basis of equity and fairness. And I have always said it that justice, equity and fairness will never hurt anybody. What it means is that everybody should be taken care of with the same measure and standard. If that is done there will be no grievances. Nobody will be aggrieved. If you do to Mohammed what you do to Akin or what you do to Chukwudi, nobody will complain. If there are sacred cows in the way you do things, if you discriminate when you want to make appointments, nobody would want to give you any chance. I think what we need to do is to seriously look at Nigeria’s framework. We need to look at our framework and see how best to make it work. We cannot pretend that we are on a progressive march. We are not! We are not doing well as a country. It is not the fault of the current leaders. But it’s a problem that has festered over time. You said you were in the Senate for 17 months. Now, going into specifics, what significant impact were you able to make within that short period? This interview will not be enough to give you an idea of the things I did at the National Assembly. But, let me tell you there was a motion I moved on May 30, 2018 and that motion was moved four months after I joined the Senate. The motion was targeted at preventing the abuse of our Nigerian children. It wasn’t a tribal or ethnic motion. I looked at the plight of Nigerian children that were languishing in various jails in Nigeria – children that were removed from the streets during hawking. Maybe they were hawking pure water, banana, groundnut and things like that. Children that ought to be in the schools studying! But, because their parents could not put them in schools and government could not help them, they took to streets hawking. Most of them were rounded up by police during raids and taken to stations and then dumped in the prison yards. I read a story that exposed the inhumane treatments these children have been subjected to. Some of them have been there for 12 years over simple things. I said it cannot happen! And I woke the Senate up with that motion on May 30, 2018 – Illegal confinement of under-aged children in prisons with adult inmates. When I moved that motion, it brought out tears from the eyes of most of the senators. We discussed this motion for nearly one hour. And eventually the resolutions were taken – No Nigerian child should be put in any Nigerian prison where you have adult inmates. And moreover, none of them can stay there beyond 48 hours for any reason, not to talk about staying there for 12 years and they are forgotten. We also approved that government should build reform centres across Nigeria for children. Children should stay at separate facilities where they will be remoulded and returned to the society for those that were found guilty of any offence. We also approved through the prayers of that motion that no Nigerian child should be detained without taking the child to court and given the child the services of a lawyer to defend him or her. At the end of 2018, that motion was voted as the best motion for 2018 in the entire National Assembly. So, if you get into public service with nationalist spirit, you don’t think about what will affect your people alone. This is about the Nigerian children wherever they are from. And that motion drew attention of even BBC. The BBC correspondent came to interview me in my office on that motion. It is the type of things we should be focusing on as a people. Something that will affect everybody. However, because we run a representative parliament, you are representing some people. Sometimes, I bring some motions that spoke about the needs of my own people – the people I am representing; how they have been excluded in many essential programmes of government. And I sought for their inclusion. When you are seeking for the inclusion of the interest of your people, you are not fighting those who have been accommodated. You are only asking for justice. What is good for the goose is good for the gander. If this person has gotten this, the other person should also get it. So, I was doing that to seek for equity and fairness. Was that why you vehemently opposed the confirmation of EFCC Board nominees sent to the Senate in December 2018? Of course, on December 11, 2018, the Senate was confronted with the task of confirming nominees to serve as members of the Board of EFCC. They were to be six members. And from the report brought to us, South East and South South had no representative. And you know, I am not from South-South. That list was to be confirmed and I stood up and opposed the confirmation on the ground that South South and South East had no representatives in line with the principle of Federal Character, as enshrined in our constitution. South West has a member and the Secretary to the commission. North East has chairman and a member. North West has a member. North Central has a member. Then South East and South South had nobody. We argued it in plenary and it became very rancorous. We then went into a closed-door session. We discussed it at the closed-door session. And to tell you that Nigerians can tell themselves the truth, Senators from North West, Senators from even South West joined in agreeing with my argument; and finally, we stood that confirmation down so that the list will reflect Federal Character. That is the way to do things. When I was making that argument, I didn’t say North East, North West, North Central and South West should not get a member. I was only saying that since the seats are six in number, it should go round the six geo-political zones. That would be in accord with equity and Section 14(3) of the constitution that provides for Federal Character that anything you would do in Nigeria, be it appointments, sharing of resources or anything whatsoever, it must reflect Federal Character. What in your view would be the consequence of the absence of full compliance to that Section 14 (3) of the constitution in the running of the affairs of the country? It is the abuse or disrespect to that Section 14 (3) of the Constitution that deals with the Federal Character principle that is threatening the unity of Nigeria. As far as I am concerned, that provision is the most important provision in the Nigerian constitution. That is the only provision in our constitution that was aimed at preserving the unity of Nigeria where everybody will be carried along and given a sense of belonging. Therefore, if you continue to neglect that provision of Section 14 (3) of the Nigerian constitution, you are sowing the seed of division in Nigeria. I did quite a lot in contributing to national debates that were aimed at promoting brotherhood of the Nigerian people. I was close to virtually everybody in the chamber. Everybody was my friend when I was in the Senate. I was close to all the Senators. Despite your late entry into the 8th Senate? Of course, that was never an impediment. Within six months of being in the Senate, I have made my mark. Many people knew me before I joined the Senate anyway. They knew the views I was holding before I came to the Senate. And when I came, they saw that I was not against anybody. I was only saying that let’s do things in a manner that will entrench unity and make Nigeria a good country. When I bring up any Issue, people will support it from all divides. So, we enjoined ourselves in that spirit. At the home front, did you do anything to positively affect the lives of your constituents in Anambra Central in terms of constituency projects, given your short stay in the Red Chamber? Let me tell you that it was when I got to the Senate that my people now saw what is called constituency projects for the first time and started experiencing it at the senatorial district. If you are following it online, you will see that I had 40 projects scattered in my senatorial district in 2018 alone. And they are all executed. I didn’t touch one naira of it. All the agencies of government that the projects were domiciled, awarded them and they are supervising them. Most of them are getting completed now. I was involved in only two budget sessions – 2018 and 2019. In the 2019 budget year, 28 projects I put in the budget were advertised for tender by the government agencies. Some of the 40 projects I pushed in the 2018 budgets have reached 90% completion where the agencies involved released money. The projects include healthcare centres, primary school blocks, water projects, skill acquisition centers and all that. My people always celebrate it in the social media. If you are occupying leadership position with honest intention, it will be easy for people to see. Do you have any fear with the ongoing probe by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) in respect of constituency projects, as reports have it that some current and former lawmakers are not comfortable with the development? I am happy that the ICPC is probing constituency projects now. I have nothing to fear regarding the projects I facilitated because my hands are clean. It is only those that have skeletons in their cupboards that will be afraid of the probe. Like I said earlier, most of my projects for which money was released are at different stages of completion. I can tell you confidently that by the time they (ICPC) finish (their probe of constituency projects), you will hear my name again as one of the best Senators on constituency projects execution and implementation. My projects are physical projects. I didn’t do supplies. There are people who will go and put supply this, supply that. No! I didn’t do supplies. What I put there is either healthcare centre, school blocks to help children that are going to schools, or water projects. Things you see on ground! Do you directly handle the projects? No, I didn’t handle. These are projects I put in the budget. I only initiated. I didn’t take part in the execution. The agencies of government where these projects are domiciled execute them. Mine as the Senator that facilitated the projects, is to make sure that money is provided for them in the budget and the works are done. For classroom blocks, they are done by the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC). Health centres are done by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency. The agencies are the ones that execute. The lawmaker who pushed for the projects can only monitor to ensure that money released for them are not embezzled and the jobs are properly done for the benefit of his or her people. That is why I went for physical projects because they are visible and not supplies of exercise books which is amorphous. This is a departure from what used to obtain before I went to the Senate to represent Anambra Central. In my time i made sure that monies are put on physical projects like skill acquisition centres. As a serving Senator in 2018, you offered university scholarship to 74 indigent students in your constituency. Would you continue to sponsor them now that you are no longer their representative in the Senate? Of course! I am still sponsoring them despite being out of the Senate. My scholarship award to 74 brilliant, but less privileged children from Anambra Central Senatorial District in the universities, is in addition to over 350 others pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in various universities through my Victor Umeh Education Foundation (VUMEF). The Foundation is 12 years old and has produced hundreds of graduates and postgraduates, including doctorate degree holders in various disciplines. I have officially co-opted the 74 students into my education foundation scheme to take full responsibility of their studies until their graduation, because, giving the youths a brighter future remains my priority, whether I am occupying a political office or not.