LAGOS – Mr. Femi Falan (SAN), a hu­man rights lawyer on Tuesday said that the At­torney-General and Min­ister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) has no right whatsoever over the con­trol of the Economic and Financial Crimes Com­mission (EFCC) and Inde­pendent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC). Speaking in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Falana said that the only power the AGF has is to take over or control any criminal case concerning federal offence. In his words “Both the EFCC and ICPC are not under the statutory control of the Attorney-General of the Federation. Apart from exercising the power to take over or continue any criminal case con­cerning federal offence, the AGF cannot control the anti-graft agencies in any manner whatsoever”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Even though the EFCC Act empowers the EFCC to make regulations for the EFCC, they are for the smooth running of the commission. Messrs Mo­hammed Adoke SAN and Abubakar Malami SAN is­sued regulations that con­travene the provisions of the EFCC Act. Such regu­lations have been ignored”. It will be recalled that Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presiden­tial Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PA­CAC) has appealed to Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari to remove the EFCC and the ICPC from the control and supervision of the Ministry of Justice. The legal expert and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Con­gress (APC) said that he is unhappy with frequent attempts by Abubakar Malami (SAN to whittle down the powers of the two anti-corruption agencies, especially that of Ibrahim Magu, the Acting EFCC Chairman. Sagay, whose committee has recommended Magu for reappointment by Pres­ident Buhari for a second term said it is worrisome that the Ministry of Jus­tice headed by Malami is treating both the EFCC and ICPC as rivals, while taking actions aimed at frustrating their efforts. “I will strongly rec­ommend that the EFCC and ICPC be taken away from the supervision of the Ministry of Justice. The regular interference of the Ministry in their work is seriously slowing down the anti-corruption war”.