ABUJA – Members of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum have absolved the Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi, of allegations of involvement in anti-party activities. They said allegations doing the rounds that Umahi was both a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was a calculated attempt to tarnish his image in the eyes of right thinking persons of society. The forum debunked the allegations through a statement issued from its secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Director-General of the forum, Earl Osaro Onaiwu, said: “The news circulating online that our dear member-governor, H.E. Engr. David Nweze Umahi of Ebonyi State, said he belongs to both the PDP and APC is a blatant falsehood aimed at tarnishing the image of the governor and as well derailing him from his focus. The author of that publication acted in bad fate, with malice and certainly with ulterior and sinister motives”. “On several occasions and at all times even in the face of stiff opposition and blackmail, Gov. Umahi has always proved to be a committed party man. He loves the party; he loves the PDP Governors’ Forum, and they in turn love and cherish the friendship and bond between them. “It is, therefore, no gainsaying that all these is about 2023, but may we hasten to add that there are more civilized and cultured ways to go about it. Yes, he like every other key-player in the political arena, may have his ambitions and dreams upon the end of his current service tenure in 2023; he may aspire for any of the offices at the Presidential Villa, which of course he is constitutionally fit and qualified for, but that will certainly be on the platform of the PDP. “We have enough reasons and instances to believe that he may have been quoted out of context in the now-viral online publication. We smell mischief. We see the handiwork of detractors who are too scared of his credentials and constantly growing legacies so far attained in governance in Ebonyi State.” Meanwhile, Governor Umahi on Tuesday said he remained unshakably a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and denied media reports linking him to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Umahi, a PDP Governor, was quoted in a media report as saying he also belonged to APC and remained the only Governor in Nigeria that could engage in anti-party and nothing would happen. He was said to have made the statement recently when he received the people of Ishielu LGA of the state who paid him Christmas homage at his country home, Umunaga Uburu, Ohaozara Local Government Area of the state. But Umahi, while debunking the report, said he was misquoted, as there was no way he could have made such a statement. A statement signed on his behalf by the state Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Barr Uchenna Orji, said some mischief-makers who hid under partisan politics to malign him misrepresented him. “In their desperate attempt to cause disaffection against the state government, they mischievously misrepresented the Governor as saying: ‘I am the only Governor that belongs to PDP and APC.”