The placement of a lien on the accounts of a Chinese firm, Western Metal Products Company, popularly known as WEMPCO Steel Mill Limited, for non-payment of a N200m tax may have forced the firm into temporary closure. Reports said the company had scaled down its activities in the past six months as it had not been in production. Inquiries at the Federal Inland Revenue Service showed that the company had been in default of tax payment for more than six years, thereby prompting the lien placed on the company’s bank activities. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Wahab Gbadamosi, the Head, Communications and Servicom Department, FIRS, told one of our correspondents in a telephone interview that the tax debt was for a seven-year period covering 2011 to 2017. He said the company had not been complying with the provisions of the tax laws in the payment of taxes. He said some of the taxes which the company had defaulted in remitting to government were Companies Income Tax, Value Added Tax and Withholding Tax. Gbadamosi said, “The company has not been complying with FIRS laws in terms of Value Added Tax remittances and Withholding Tax. “We only placed a notice of that on their office. We did not lock their office. They owe over N200m in tax VAT, Companies Income Tax and Withholding Tax from 2011 to 2017. “What we place on their office is a non-compliance sticker showing that the company has not been complying with the provisions of the tax laws and that it is a tax debtor to the government.” A senior official in the FIRS also told our correspondent that the office of the company was not shut. The official said based on the FIRS record, it was a lien that was placed on the account of the company rather than outright closure. The source who pleaded not go be named as he was not officially permitted to speak on the issue, said when a lien is placed by the FIRS on a company’s bank account, it implies that the company may not be able to have access to that account until it settles it’s tax liabilities with the government. A visit to one of the factories of the company at Arepo-Magboro, Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State by one of our correspondents revealed that its activities were on the low ebb. The vehicles within the premises were covered with dust, given the harmattan haze and road construction observed along that axis of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.