The pulverisation plant being constructed by Ebonyi State government is to turn all the wastes products generated in the state into wealth before the end of this year. David Umahi, the state governor, disclosed this at his country home, Uburu in Ohaozara Local Government Area of the state Thursday when he received the management and staff of the state Ministry of Environment on a Christmas homage. He urged the Commissioner for Environment, Chief Emmanuel Uguru, to swing into action fully on the pulverisation of plants by devising means of getting grinding machine that would be used to grind and bag wastes into organic manure. Umahi said, “We have so much in the country; I have a discussion on pulverisation plant yesterday. We have to go and turn on the pulverisation of plant this January. I want to get this programme for laterite filling for the concreting of the premises. “So we have devised another means of getting grinding machine to grind it and then baggage it into organic manure. It will be garbage dried so that when you buy it and you take it, just pour water into it and expose it and then the minute aspect of it will start. Then the other aspect will be used for our energy. The Governor also charged the ministry to embark on massive tree planting across the state and to get people to water them to ensure they grow and protect the environment to mitigate climate change. He commended the Commissioner for his doggedness and hard work describing him as very optimistic, committed and a leader with conscience. “You’re a very optimistic leader, a very committed leader and a leader with conscience. Commissioner, thank you. I want to see you do very massive tree planting; it does not need money, all the drainages we are building, we can make it compulsory that everywhere we drainage we build; we can incorporate it in the contract so that we can plant trees and get people around to water it,” he added. Earlier, the Commissioner, Chief Emmanuel Uguru, lauded the governor for his ingenuity and qualitative leadership style which has brought positive change in all spheres of life and promised the governor that the ministry would stop at nothing to ensure that the capital city and beyond are clean and green.