Chelsea have been offered the chance to sign Thomas Lemar this January – and the Atletico Madrid midfielder is reportedly open to completing a move to Stamford Bridge. The Blues are on the hunt for attacking reinforcements and Frank Lampard has drawn up a shortlist of targets as he looks to strengthen his young squad. Moussa Dembele, Jadon Sancho and Gabriel Barbosa have all been linked in recent weeks and Chelsea are ready to release the funds necessary to boost their top-four hopes. Chelsea have pulled out of the race to sign Wilfried Zaha, though, with Crystal Palace demanding a fee of £80million for the forward. According to The Evening Standard, a more realistic and cheaper option would be Atleti’s Lemar who has failed to live up to expectations in the Spanish capital since his move from Monaco back in 2018. The report indicates that Lemar would be keen on a switch to Stamford Bridge as he looks to revive his stuttering career. Lemar is available on loan for a fee of £5million or, alternatively, for around £50m if Chelsea want to sign the Frenchman permanently. While Arsenal have considered a move for Lemar, Mikel Arteta feels his squad are already well stocked in that area. Lemar has also on been Tottenham’s radar this winter, but the north London club would only consider a loan agreement for the World Cup winner. Lampard claims he’s central to a ‘joined-up’ transfer strategy as the club look to bolster their squad this month. ‘I know we haven’t done anything yet so there is no proof in that but we are joined up,’ the Chelsea manager said. ‘I have very close conversations with Marina [Granovskaia, the director], Petr Cech [the technical and performance adviser] and Scott [McLachlan], who is the head of our recruitment department. ‘They know what I want and I will be fundamentally in the middle of who and what we bring into the club. ‘As it stands we are very open about that. If it feels right from my side, on the footballing point, in January, and from the club side in January, then we will make the moves we make. It is a joined-up effort.’ Powered by RubiQube Ad Network