LAGOS – Following what so many stakeholders termed a poor year for national and club football in the country in 2019, the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) has been charged to revisit grassroots football if it hopes to revitalise the country’s football. In an exclusive chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT on the state of Nigerian football in the out-gone year, Henry Nwosu (MON), former captain of the national team, regretted the performances of the various national teams, concluding that the NFF must prioritise grassroots football in order to unearth quality talents for the country. He said such grassroots competition like the defunct Principals Cup should be brought back and new ones started for Nigerian football to come back to competitiveness. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “It is very unfortunate how our football went in 2019. But when you look at it closely, it was not completely surprising because we have lost it since we relegated grassroots football. “Imagine our various national teams failing to qualify for major tournaments and losing to countries that they should ordinarily not lose to. “The solution is in the grassroots. Even NPFL is not helping matters because some people are undermining the league. “I think if we must develop quality talents even for the league and then the national team, NFF must start this year to go back to the grassroots. “Before, we have competitions like the Principals Cup and all that. Nothing should stop us from going back to such completions and even come up with new ones. They should start that in this 2020,” he said. Recall that both men and women football teams failed to qualify for the football events of the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, just like the home base Super Eagles also failed to qualify for the 2020 CHAN in Cameroon. Also, the home Eagles performed abysmally poor at the 2019 WAFU Cup, capping a miserable year for the national team football, even as both the U17, U20 and continental clubs were also not left out in the free fall.