PORT HARCOURT – The British-American born motivational speaker and author, Simon Oliver Sinek, must have conjectured a lot in his mind about the happenings in the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), when he postulated that “Great leaders are willing to sacrifice the numbers to save the people. Poor leaders sacrifice the people to save the numbers”. It is no more news that APC in Rivers State has been enmeshed in what has come to look like an irredeemable crisis that has defied practical solutions. The root of the crisis rocking the party predates the last general elections. But, the insoluble danger it now finds itself was sanctioned when the party could not participate in the governorship and National Assembly elections in March, 2019. The distraught between the two leaders of the APC in the state was its greatest undoing as the Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, who is also the leader of the party in Rivers State and Senator Magnus Abe rather chose to “sacrifice the people to save the numbers”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network When it became obvious that APC was barred by the court not to participate in the elections, the Amaechi’s faction immediately opted to prop up a certain Eng. Biokpomabo Awara of the AAC to contest the governorship election against the PDP’s candidate, Governor Nyesom Wike. Every entreaty to reposition the party for a possible electoral contest has always failed at the initial stage. Because of the preponderance of litigations, the party missed out on the last election. For this reason, President Muhammadu Buhari could not score the constitutionally required 25 percent vote in Rivers State unlike the other states of the South South geo-political zone. Looking back at the unfortunate past, the national leadership of the APC soon realised that it was time it began to take steps that would put the party on a better stead in readiness for the 2023 general elections. Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC spokesman, last week threatened that the party would petition the National Judicial Council (NJC), over the activities of the judge of the Rivers State High Court, Justice Augusta Kingsley-Chukwu, presiding over the cases involving the APC in the state. Issa-Onilu alleged that the judge had not been fair to the APC as it had been working towards repositioning the APC in Rivers, saying that based on the development, the party decided to set up a caretaker committee that would oversee congresses to elect new leaders at all levels in the state. However, the APC spokesman said the party had not been able to constitute the caretaker committee because of cases that had been filed in court. On September 6, 2019, the APC constituted a caretaker committee to pilot the affairs of the party in Rivers State. The party also scheduled the conduct of congresses to elect the executives of the party at various levels. Just as the process of resurrecting the APC in Rivers State was underway, Ibrahim Umah immediately instituted a suit at the Rivers State High Court challenging the proposed congresses and obtained an interim injunction restraining the party from doing so. “The APC objected to the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the suit and on December 18, 2019, the court struck out the suit for want of jurisdiction thereby allowing the APC to proceed with its re-strategising process and conduct of congresses,” Issa-Onilu said. Most shocking was the fact that the former House of Representatives and a staunch ally of Amaechi, Hon. Igo Aguma filed a similar suit against the APC challenging the composition of the caretaker committee. The suit, which was filed on December 16, 2019 was also assigned to Justice Augusta Kingsley-Chukwu. “The APC was entitled to 21 days within which to enter an appearance and file a defence to the suit. Curiously, it was brought to our attention that Justice Augusta Kingsley-Chukwu had abridged the time to 48 hours.” The party in its characteristic style of doing things and blame game tactic alleged that “It is clear to us that the PDP in connivance with Justice Augusta Kingsley-Chukwu has perfected plans to keep APC in Rivers State in perpetual paralysis through endless suits and injunctions.” Another clog in the wheel of solving the party’s infraction came when Senator Magnus Abe-led faction listed some stringent conditions to solve the internal crisis within the party in Rivers State. Speaking through the former Commissioner for Justice in the State, Barrister Wogu Boms, Senator Abe said that it was either the National Working Committee of the APC invited both the Rotimi Amaechi and the Magnus Abe groups for a peace talk or implement the judgment of a Port Harcourt High Court delivered last year by Justice Chiwendu Worgu. Boms added that there were alleged plans by some APC leaders to suspend Senator Abe, adding that Amaechi should be rather punished for engaging in anti-party activities. “The APC in Rivers State is in comatose. If urgent steps are not taken, it may not come out of it early enough, if at all, fit and capable to make a strong showing in the 2023 elections. We must remind all of the heavy sacrifices we all made to establish the party in the state at that most politically dangerous time in our state.” The former Attorney General of the state said that it was irresponsible to continue to accuse Governor Wike and the judiciary at all levels as the causes of the political woes that had beclouded the party when the leaders had not done what they should have done as a party in crises. “No one has respect for any person or group that cannot solve their problems. The way out, should the party be unable to meet in a peace meeting to resolve all issues with all stakeholders, is to call for and abide by all the judgments and rulings of the State High Court as affirmed by the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court which not only voided the exclusion of the aggrieved members from the congresses they paid to obtain forms to participate in, but also made some orders,” he said. From this prism, it looks clearly that this is the path of constitutionalism that is the only viable way out of this needless political situation the party leadership foisted on itself and its members making them look like political orphans in a state that appears to run a unipartism. Abe assumed confidence that he will emerge victorious in the ongoing crisis rocking the Rivers State chapter of the APC, declaring that truth will ultimately triumph over lies and deceit, no matter how it is presented. He was apparently referring to the Amaechi camp. He reminded Nigerians that he fought his political battles within the party fold without arming youths or sponsoring any act of violence against anyone, despite what he described as several acts of sponsored violence against him and his supporters. The senator who spoke at the presentation of an Award of Excellence, Non-Violence, Human Capacity Development and Apostle of  Internal Democracy in Nigeria to him by the All Indian Universities Alumni Association at the Indian High Commission, Lagos at an occasion held to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the late Indian leader, Mahatma Gandhi, said nothing would make him revert to political violence. “We have clung to nothing but the truth and refused to employ violence through what has been the most turbulent period in the political history of Rivers State, a violent circle of elections and reruns, in spite of coordinated acts of violence and murder targeted at us and our supporters. “Again in the internal crisis within the APC Rivers State, despite several acts of sponsored violence against us, we fought our battles without arming youths or sponsoring any act of violence against anyone, friend or foe,” he said. The most stunning attack on the APC which further brutalised what remained as the ego of the party was the salvo launched by a two-term member of the House of Representatives, from the state, Igo Aguma, a closed pal of Amaechi. Aguma disclosed why he approached the Rivers State High Court, Port Harcourt, to stop the congresses of the APC in the state scheduled a fortnight ago which was given a clearance by the court. The APC stalwart explained that he did not go to court to embarrass his friend, boss and leader of the state APC, Amaechi, but to provide a solid foundation for the main opposition party in the state to ensure peace, inclusiveness, unity, internal democracy and progress. It is important to recall that last week, Justice G.O. Ollor of the High Court, Port Harcourt, struck out the suit by Ibrahim Umar and 22 others, who are supporters of Abe, who was APC’s governorship aspirant during the 2015 and 2019 elections in the state. Giving the Justice Ollor’s judgment, the interim order which halted the ward, local government and state congresses of the APC in Rivers State was set aside, but Abe’s supporters vowed that they would approach the Court of Appeal. Earlier in Abuja, the secretary of the National Organising of the APC, Emma Ibediro, had assured that Rivers APC’s congresses would go on as planned starting with ward congress, while the local government congress across the 23 local government areas of the state was scheduled to hold days after and that of state congress according to him was planned for Friday of that same week. In his suit with reference number: PHC/4355/2019, Aguma sued the Chairman of the Caretaker Committee of APC in Rivers, Isaac Ogbobula, a lawyer, the APC, and its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The presiding judge, Justice A.U. Kingsley-Chuku, ordered that the three defendants (Ogbobula, APC and Oshiomhole) must forthwith stop the planned congresses, with the matter adjourned till January 27, 2020, for definite hearing. Responding to the accusation of a fifth columnist in the state APC, Aguma argued that “It is not true that Senator Magnus Abe is sponsoring me. By God’s grace, I am an astute businessman. I was born very well. I stand on my conscience and truth. As a former member of the House of Representatives, I am part of the over 30 statutory members of the executive of APC in Rivers State. Some of us should have constituted the caretaker committee, not persons hand-picked and imposed on the party, without wide consultations. “Former Rivers State governors, Rufus Àda-George and Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, my leader, as well as Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, are also part of the statutory members of the executive of Rivers APC, without expiration of tenure and we ought to be adequately consulted always. It is when we hold meetings that vital decisions can be taken. “26 offices ought to be contested for, but this is not the time for congresses, but for peace, unity and reconciliation. If the congresses are held now, they will be by just a faction of the party in the state, which will be unacceptable. Rt. Hon. Amaechi cannot unilaterally set up caretaker committee, without consulting the critical stakeholders. Besides Rt. Hon. Amaechi and Senator Abe, there are other persons in Rivers APC, which must not be allowed to die, because of ego of two persons. The party is bigger than individuals. The court order is to preserve the rex of the matter. “I have immensely contributed to build APC in Rivers State. I am a thorough progressive. I believe in the ideals of APC and one of them is internal democracy. A political party cannot do well without internal democracy. There is need for inclusiveness in Rivers APC, which ought to be a political party that will accommodate all shades of opinion. Where will Rivers APC be in 2023? The situation may not be different from the 2019 experience, whereby the party could not field candidates for the state’s House of Assembly, governorship and National Assembly elections. “Only one person cannot have a political party. People should not be shut out of APC in Rivers State. It should not be about absolutism. It is time to build APC in Rivers State. All shades of opinion must be included in Rivers APC, then it will be called a political party. This is the best time to call for and make peace, as elections are not holding now. Rivers APC must be stronger ahead of the 2023 elections. We must have a solid foundation.” A former prominent member of the party who will not want to be mentioned in his response to the disaster plaguing the APC called on Amaechi to “allow members who want to leave the party to leave in peace”. He went on to say that “there is nothing like APC again in Rivers State. APC is dead here in Rivers State and people want to move on. He should allow them to go.” According to the topnotch politician, “out of the 23 local government areas in the state, I am not convinced that Amaechi can boast of five state chairmen of the party who are still standing with him. He has destroyed the party because of his rigidity in handling party affairs. In Rivers APC, it is only one voice that is heard. That voice is Amaechi. Every other voice is irrelevant even if it is an advice”. Public opinion has it that the former governor has not done enough to remedy the APC in the state from its present comatose state. There appears to be a selective empowerment of “only few close allies” of the Minister who in turn have not bothered to allow such magnanimity to trickle down to the grass root. Besides Dr. Dakuku Peterside, Director General of the Nigerian Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, who is now the most vibrant spokesperson of the Amaechi faction of the party, there is virtually nobody else that speaks in favour of the minister in the APC fold. Most aggrieved are those who spent fortune to pay for forms in readiness for the last election into various electoral positions which was later scuttled as a result of the Supreme Court judgment that barred the APC from participating in the last general elections. More so, the minister has been highly debased due to the fact that as a frontline two-term minister and a two-time Director General of President Buhari campaign organization, Amaechi has not drawn any project of note to the state. This class of people believes that lack of federal projects in the state has denied them the opportunity of opening their mouths in the public space to boast about the APC. “What do we have to show for our membership of the party? If we are to recruit new members to the APC in Rivers State, what do we tell them we have brought to bear in the state? The minister has abandoned everybody. Nobody is talking anything good about APC in Rivers State again because we have nothing to show to the public”, an angry member lamented. Another influential member of the troubled APC owned up to the fact that the performance of Governor Wike has “quietened us the more. Put politics aside, Wike has done well for Rivers State and that has further aggravated our position. What do we have to tell the Rivers people? The man there has done well. But I hope that before the next election season, the wrangling in APC must have been settled? he said. As it stands now, APC is dragged to depletion by three factions in the state. The Amaechi faction, the Abe camp and the emerging third force led by Aguma. Because there are too many cooks, the broth is definitely bound to be spoiled. The national leadership of the APC may not be in the right frame of mind to settle the APC problem in Rivers State because it has its hands full already with the crisis rocking the national chairman, Oshiomhole who is currently fighting the battle of his life to remain as chairman of the party amidst stiff opposition from within. It is therefore the opinion of many people that APC has died a natural death in Rivers State, even as more about the party would be revealed as the days roll over.