The Federal Government at the weekend poised to promote healthy working conditions for Nigerian workers in line with International Labour Organisation Standards. William Alo, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment,  disclosed this on Friday in his keynote address at a two-day Practical Workshop Session on Report Rendition on the Application of unratified Conventions and Recommendations held in Abuja. According to The Permanent Secretary, the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari recognises that a stable and harmonious industrial relation climate and decent work for all, is critical instrument for the realization of the goal and targets of the 2020 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in term of creating more jobs, improving livelihoods and ensuring sustainable development in Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Alo noted that, in 2018 and 2019 the Country was able to clear up the back-log of reports due on Ratified and Unratified Conventions within the specified period as expected. It is therefore, the Ministry’s plan according to him, to ensure that the report on Unratified Conventions is submitted as at when due. The two-day Practical Workshop centered on Report Rendition on the Application of Unratified Conventions and Recommendations organised by the Ministry in line with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Article 19 which provides that member States should “in respect of each such conventions and recommendations which it has not ratified, report to the Director General of the International Labour Office at appropriate intervals as requested by the Governing body, the position of the law and practice of the Federation and its constituent States, provinces and cantons in regard to the Conventions, showing the extent to which effort has been given, or is proposed to be given, to any of the provision of the Conventions by legislation, administrative action, collective agreement or otherwise.” In his welcoming remark, the Director, Productivity Measurement and Labour Standard, represented by the Deputy Director in the Ministry, Mrs. Adebambo, says that the workshop was organised in order to fulfilled Nigeria’s obligations and commitment towards the adoption of the concerned conventions as it may apply to the recommendations. The report to be generated from the Unratified conventions according to Mr. Dan Neburago will enable the Committee of Expert on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations (CEACR) prepare a general survey that will address the diversity in employment agreement as stated in the ILO Conventions and Recommendations. He concluded that timely and effective implementation of application of International Labour Standards and prompt reporting remains one of the best strategies in Labour administration and promoting Decent work in the community.