There are indications that the Federal Government might have extended the deadline for the national shutdown of open drugs markets by one year, given drug distributors and other stakeholders the opportunity to tidy up arrangements for a seamless transition. It would be recalled that the Federal Government had earlier fixed December 31, 2019 for the shutdown of open drugs markets and transition to Coordinated Wholesale Centres (CWC) as continued in the new National Drug Distribution Guidelines (NDDG). DAILY INDEPENDENT reliably gathered that the government might have extended the deadline to December 31, 2020 after operators of open drugs markets and other stakeholders engaged regulatory agencies on the plan and feasibility of a seamless transition. Industry sources confirmed to our correspondent that government and industry stakeholders had reached agreement on the extension of the deadline in view of the ongoing efforts for compliance. The regulated CWCs system was designed as an alternative to the chaotic open drug markets as part of efforts to stamp out fake and substandard drugs in the country. Under the new arrangement, the Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN), the industry self regulatory organisation (SRO) and the National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) are expected to commence enforcement of the ban on open sale of drugs as from 2021. In view of the capital intensive nature of the project, implementation of the NDDG policy has been extended twice to allow dealers in various states ample time to construct structures that meet global standards. Rather than hastily pushing operators out of business, the Federal Government approved the construction of CWCs to relocate dealers in Lagos State, and other locations across the country. Through these regulated centres, pharmaceutical companies will distribute their products and ensure that drugs are monitored down to retail consumers. Sir Felix Ugbojiaku , Chairman, Lagos Medicine Dealers Association (LSMDA, Island Zone), in a chat with our correspondent recently, said that PCN and other stakeholders realised that the projects are highly capital intensive and needed more time to be completed. According to him, in Lagos State, work is being intensified by City Pharmaceuticals and Allied Partners Limited which is handling the project and the project will be completed on or before the new December 31, 2020 deadline.