Federal Government’s unending discordant tunes over the increasingly controversial vexed issue of registration of Nigerians for National Identity Number (NIN) by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) have been generating heated condemnations across the country following government’s recent directive that citizens should within two weeks, register unfailingly, for NIN. Many had wondered how it could be feasible for 206 million citizens to be registered for NIN within a relatively short period of two weeks, especially judging by the fact that since 1999, successive administrations, including the sitting President Muhammadu Buhari–led Federal Government, due largely to corruption, mismanagement of resources, lack of political will, as well as insincerity, have failed woefully, to get reasonable and acceptable number of Nigerians registered for NIN. Over the years, as a result of deplorable handling of the registration exercise, discordant tunes, controversies and condemnations have continued to trail the all-important but seemingly unfaithfully implemented policy. If all Nigerians are registered, it would not only enable government at various tiers, have fair knowledge of total number of citizens, government would also have reliable data with which to plan for development purposes for country and citizenry. Latest discordant tunes arose when the central government ordered citizens to link their SIM cards with their NIN not later than December 30, 2020 or risk their SIM cards being blocked. The protracted ugly situation became compounded when, due to public outcries, government unremorsefully, reportedly announced last week, extension of the period for NIN registration from the earlier two weeks to three weeks for subscribers with NIN from December 30, 2020 to January 19, 2021, while six weeks extension is for subscribers without NIN from December 30, 2020 to February 9, 2021. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! This policy somersault and lack of co-ordination in the way government conducts its activities are largely responsible for failure of its policies, programmes and projects which is, ultimately, the bane of Nigeria’s development. Even with the extensions, we still doubt if many Nigerians would be registered without tears by the end of the exercise on February 9, 2021. What has government, which, in this case, is represented by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) put in place to ensure seamless registration of Nigerians for NIN? If since 1999, millions of Nigerians, in spite of their harrowing experiences of agonising hardships and extortions in the hands of corrupt and insensitive NIMC officials are yet to be registered, what is the guaranty that subscribers with NIN, as well as those without NIN would successfully be captured to link their SIM cards with their NIN, before expiration of the deadlines especially now that the expected large crowds at registration centres, countrywide, need to strictly comply with COVID-19 protocols and guidelines? Last week, the National Task Force on National Identification Number (NIN) and SIM Registration reportedly met and extended period for NIN registration. At the meeting led by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami with relevant stakeholders, President Buhari was reported to have implored all stakeholders to take advantage of the extensions to link the SIM cards with their NIN. We commend federal government for extending the period for NIN registration but, more importantly, government must muster the political will to put necessary measures in place to ensure NIMC is more than ever before, adequately equipped to register Nigerians without further delay. If after three weeks or six weeks, many citizens are yet to be registered due to usual unserious attitude of unscrupulous NIMC officials to their duties, government should be held responsible for inability of Nigerians to register for NIN. Christmas: Leaders Should Serve With Fear Of God Still On Nigeria’s Population Unrealistic and laughable deadlines despite the myriad of traumatic challenges foisted on hapless and impoverished citizens are part of moves by desperate and insensitive officials to extort and worsen the pitiable plight of Nigerians. Whoever fails to plan has inevitably planned to fail. Failure of successive administrations to plan well for NIN registration is responsible for unenviable results recorded in this regard over the years. We recall that under the administration of former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, registration and issuance of national identity cards to citizens under the National Identification Number scheme supervised by late Minister of Internal Affairs, Chief Sunday Afolabi, was corruption-ridden. It was a huge scandal that rocked the Obasanjo administration to its foundation. Since Afolabi’s mysterious demise, nobody has either been prosecuted or penalised to serve as a deterrent. Renewed attempt by former President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, to make Nigerians register massively for NIN, were unfruitful in spite of humongous financial, human and material resources pumped into NIMC to enable it provide seamless service. Sometime in January 2020, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) led by Professor Ishaq Oloyede took ill-advised decision when it made NIN mandatory prerequisite for candidates sitting for 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Many had wondered why JAMB could make such decision when it knew NIMC was still battling to register millions of citizens. Following public outcries against its policy, JAMB was forced to rescind its unpopular decision. Beyond extension of period for NIN registration, citizens should be informed through effective enlightenment programmes, to sensitive them to go for registration. Although the Executive Vice-Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Dambatta reportedly disclosed that the USSD and verification charges would be suspended throughout the extension periods, issuance of NIN to every eligible Nigerian must be free-of-charge, irrespective of age, as well as political, religious, ethnic or job affiliations. Finally, registration for NIN must be transparent and totally devoid of malpractices, one of which is to allow foreigners participate in the exercise meant solely for Nigerians. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION