ABUJA- As second wave of COVID -19  pandemic ravages across the country, 86 patients was said to be receiving treatment during this yuletide at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH) , Gwagwalada and ThisDay Dome. Out of 86 COVID-19 patients in the nation’s capital, UATH have about 42, Thisday Dome 44, and Idu isolation and treatment center none. However, 22 out of the 42 patients are said to be very severe and critical and only surviving through oxygenation. This shows that the second wave is even more virulent than the first wave. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Confirming the critical condition of the patients,  the FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr. Adesola Olusade who toured the centres over the weekend,  noted that apart from the 22 patients on oxygen,  the reports about the places were impressive. Olusade said that while non critical cases are being managed at home,  86 patients  were receiving treatment  at both the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital ( UATH) and the Thisday Dome Centres respectively, with zero case at the Idu centre. Okowa Condoles With Kwankwaso Over Father’s Death Benue APC Felicitates With Akume @ 67 The Permanent Secretary, however, explained that touring the Isolation centres became necessary to ensure that they are adequately operational, in view of the resurgence of the pandemic in the nation’s capital,  with evidence of being deadlier. Speaking on non-payment of allowances of frontline workers at the Thisday Dome Isolation Centre , the Permanent Secretary confirmed that FCT Administration was paying attention to the complaints of non-payment of allowances by frontline workers at Thisday Dome, he noted that the centre was just recently transferred from the Federal Ministry of Health to FCT. Saying; “There is no time we will not have the issues of allowance,  but as they are rising we are addressing them. It is only recently that this centre was transferred to FCT,  and we are making all efforts to address all issues.” Meanwhile, the Team Lead at UATH Gwagwalada, Dr. Yunusa Thairu,  also confirmed that the second wave of the pandemic has some worrisome severe elements,  urged government to provide more oxygen and as well as boost the morale of the frontline workers. Thairu said, “We have severe and critical cased coming in and the need for oxygenation cannot be over-emphasized. As at today 22 of the patients are on oxygen” Also,  the Medical Superintendent at the Thisday Dome Centre, Dr. Molokwu Victor,  attested to the fact that all categories of  frontline workers  have not not gotten their due allowances since September 2020 till date. Victor noted that while supplies for medicals and other necessary items were adequately taken care of, the issue of allowances was the major albatross to the operations of the centre. “All categories of staff are being owed their allowances,  but the Secretary for health has promised that we should expect something soon, that the FCT Administration is working on it.” “We have been here since September working, both Doctors, nurses,  hygienic and maintenance teams have all been here and for four months now, no allowances. This place has just been handed over to FCT last month,  all this while  it has been the Federal Ministry of Health”, Victor added. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION