Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has sent a festive message to fans and vowed: “Our time for celebration together will come, I can promise you this.” The Reds manager has reflected on the high and lows of 2020 in a Christmas Day open letter addressed to supporters. Liverpool finally ended a 30-year wait for the title as they were crowned Premier League champions back in summer. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! But it has also been a tough and tragic year for so many across the world in the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Reflecting on his team winning the league, Klopp said: “Of course, when we look back on 2020, now and in the years to come, for anyone who is with us they will always remember these words: Liverpool Football Club, champions of England. That sounds great, doesn’t it? COVID-19:  Pope Francis Calls For Distribution Of Vaccines To Everyone Worldwide Buhari Condoles With Kwankwaso Over Father’s Death “How it always is in life, sometimes it is funny how things come together and for us in our bubble, we were able to be together the night we became champions. I think you have seen the footage by now… and some of the dancing! “But it was important for me that we were able to share this special moment together. The boys deserved this. “I will never forget the time we spent together but apart if you like during the lockdown. Our WhatsApp group was on fire, let me say it like this! But it showed me the togetherness and team spirit that exists within this group of players. “I didn’t need somebody to tell me that, I knew it already, but what I love about this, how I have always said, is all the different nationalities, cultures, beliefs and backgrounds coming together and working towards one goal as colleagues and as friends. Really, it is something amazing when you think of it and, as I said, it shows how better we are when we are together as human beings. “So, to share this moment together – when we became champions, a moment we will all remember and savour for the rest of our lives – was massive. It was emotional, as I am sure you saw on the TV afterwards. Then to have the trophy handed to us by Sir Kenny Dalglish… wow! Yes, it was not how we all lay in bed at night dreaming of it – a packed Anfield celebrating together – but as I said at the time, we had to celebrate it in the right way for the moment.” Klopp also gave his thoughts on the challenges this year has presented for everyone  – and thanked those who have been on the frontline. He said in the letter published on the Liverpool website: “These are extraordinary times we are living in and every single one of us has been impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. It has changed all aspects of our lives, both personally and professionally. “Who would have thought one year ago that our year would turn out this way, that we’d be in ‘lockdowns’, that we wouldn’t be able to travel or, most importantly of all, see loved ones? So, what it has really taught me is how precious life is; how quickly things can be taken away, so to appreciate all that you can. “But also what it has taught me is what good people can do when they come together and support each other. “I would like to pay tribute with all my heart to the frontline workers around the world, the doctors, nurses, hospital staff, the emergency services, for all you have done in the last nine months. Wow, what can I say? I do not have the words to even begin to describe to you how much I respect and admire all you are doing for people in these times. “On behalf of me and my team and my club, thank you. You are real heroes for us all. I will be thinking of you today.” And he finished with a look forward to what will hopefully be a happier new year. Klopp said: “I am a person who always tries to be positive, so for me there is plenty to look forward to in 2021. Most importantly, the advances in medicine and science mean that we will hopefully begin to overcome this pandemic and regain some ‘normal’ again. “But in a football sense, we will hopefully have a full Anfield once again at some point in this new year. Can you begin to imagine what that will be like? I have goosebumps just thinking of it as I type these words!” He added: “Finally, I would like to say, if this year has taught us all one thing, today is not about what is under your Christmas tree but who is standing around it with you. “We have seen how life can change so quickly, so today we should all appreciate every moment, every second, we spend with our loved ones. “I hope our team has helped put a smile on your face during an otherwise tough year for all and I am looking forward so much to seeing you again soon.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION