Movement for the Survival of Itsekiri Ethnic Nationality (MOSIEN) has told the few Itsekiri influential leaders that allegedly ceded the Warri North Local Government Council chairmanship seat to the Ijaws to discuss ways in which some Itsekiris whose houses were destroyed during the communal crises between the Ijaws and Itsekiris will live without threat to their lives and property. MOSIEN in a statement signed by Chief Robinson Ariyo, National Chairman, Prince Clement Omotoye, Esq., National Secretary, and Moses Oritsetimeyin Otaru, Esq., National P.R.O, also accused the Itsekiri political leaders of ceding the Warri North Local Government Council seat to the Ijaws in exchange for the 2023 Delta South Senatorial seat. They pointed out in the statement that some of the Itsekiri towns are yet under siege as indigenes of the communities are itching to go back to their towns and villages, but there are still visible threats that all these towns have been captured and no Itsekiri dares come back to again occupy them. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! According to the statement, we must first begin discussing ways to ensure that there is the rule of law and people are allowed to live without threat to their lives and property. “Thereafter, we can begin relocating and restoring the destroyed communities as this is the standard global practice anywhere there has been a crisis of this proportion. If these Itsekiri leaders are truly more concerned about development of Itsekiri than their respective personal and political investments in the area, they should take this global protocol step by step. Nursing Mother, 3 Others Killed In Separate Accidents In Delta Female PoS Operator Disarms 2 Armed Robbery Suspects In Edo “We cannot close our eyes to the set back that was occasioned by the attacks on our communities as if nothing happened and we are now discussing how the culprit will occupy such a political position as the Chairman of the LGA and as a matter of fact sit in the very town which he probably superintended or burnt during the crises. “Our respect for the rule of law should not be misconstrued as a lack of ability for violence and terrorism. Afterall, when we decided to evoke the law of self-survival to defend ourselves in Warri Urban during the crisis, even the then Governor was amazed at the outcome for a people known to always be peaceful. “Our leaders should engage their influence in the direction of igniting the process of assisting our people to go back home and focus on how they will be treated by way of PTSD attention”, it added. The group appealed to the leaders of Warri North to bring their plight and predicament to the State and Federal Governments in the reasonable order of priority. “The Government can and should redress the wrong done to us by restoring us back to the pre-crisis state; after that, we may then begin having the kind of discussions as being proposed by the leaders SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION