The next in the leadership loop responsible for the trouble with Nigeria is the legislature. Members of this group are the representatives of the masses who voted them into the parliament. So this class of people are supposed to be accountable to the electorate. But are the law makers engaging with their constituents? Very often, as soon they are elected, they start acting like overlords instead of servants of the people that they aught to be, and which is why they are in the first instance referred to as public servants. Disappointingly, being public servants is a role they hardly play as they fail to relate to the masses so that they can identify what grieves them and listen to their worries and concerns. The reality is that the discontentments of the aggrieved are hardly recognised by their representatives in parliament. Invariably, the elected representatives of the people offer them no succor to assuage them by pleading their case in the legislative assembly. In the light of the forgoing, it can be surmised that it is the failure to provide necessary interventions that fosters the seeds of discontentment that degenerates into anger and despondency that eventually drive some less resilient members of society into joining other aggrieved people in the system who might have taken the option of forming insurgency groups to vent their anger. Finally, the executive arm of government or the presidency, is the apex level of leadership that’s supposed to have the overarching responsibility for all citizens in terms of welfare and prosperity. But arising from the unprecedented level of insecurity in the country, the executive arm of government has been adjudged by all , including the most ardent supporters at inception in 2015, to have failed the masses monumentally. As the saying goes , a hungry man is an angry man, and l should add that insecurity of lives and properties makes citizens loose hope and humanity. Without doubt, and to be fair, the failure of the presidency in meeting the expectations of the majority of Nigerians did not start under the watch of the present leaders occupying Aso Rock Villa. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! But things have definitely gotten worse in the past five years that the current occupants of Aso Rock villa have been steering the ship of state in the wrong directions . A simple illustration of how worthless the value of life has become in Nigeria, can be found in a piece written by my good friend, deputy managing director of Thisday newspaper, Kayode Komolafe, titled “From Chibok to Kankara and published on the back page of Thisday newspaper of Wednesday, 16/12/2020. Looking Back On 2020 With A Sense Of Optimism Toward 2021 The Office Of The Attorney- General Of The Federation (AGF) In the essay he catalogued the colossal misfortune which has befallen Nigerians, especially our compatriots in the northern part of the country which has become a hot bed of insurgents and a killing field of gargantuan proportions. After refreshing readers memories about the kidnap of hundreds of school girls from their dormitory in Chibok, Borno state, in 2014 which is 6 years ago, a few more abduction of school kids in Dapchi, Yobe state, in 2018, that’s 4 years after, and now in 2020, another 2 years on, insurgents have struck again with precision and similar regularity. He then posed the question which is on the lips of the masses and which the leadership has failed to provide answer: “Therefore, it is time the Nigerian state was asked: when exactly is it a national embarrassment? When will the national shame be officially acknowledged that six years after the Chibok tragedy the combined efforts of defence and internal security organisations could not ensure the security of students in Kankara Science Secondary School? Whatever happened to the professional acumen and capacity of the army, police, SSS, civil defence corps and other security outfits supposedly on duty in Katsina State? When indeed is it an emergency?” To say that there has been an outrage, and storm of anger from overwhelmed parents of the kidnapped kids, and men and women of goodwill would be an understatement. So the ways and means of bringing back the latest captives- Kankara boys practically engulfed the nation. Writing in the same vein, Rueben Abati, an anchorman of Arise tv and newspaper columnist, had on Tuesday 15/12/2020 also taken an umbrage at the leadership of our country in an article titled “ Missing Kankara Boys And A Tear-Gassed Nation”. Employing satire by falling back on his mastery of theater arts, he made a parody of the highly sad and grim situation by engaging in a conversation with an imaginary friend. It goes thus: “Do you think the President himself should negotiate with the terrorists? Those people may not listen to just a Governor.” “When the President refused to discuss with the elected representatives of the people, you think he should now go and sit down with common criminals? Lend yourself some sense, my friend”. Thankfully, the Kankara boys have been released by their captors, whom the authorities claim are not boko haram despite the sect’s leader’s claim in a video that the captors are part of boko haram. And the credit for their release goes to Myetti Allah , the umbrella body of cattle breeders who acted as go-between and more or less, the ombudsman. Abati had nailed it with his tongue-in-cheek question on whether the terrorists would negotiate with the governor instead of the president. In a tongue-in-cheek style he must have been alluding to president Muhamadu Buhari’s initial acceptance of the summon by the Congress-House of Representatives to address them on the rapidly escalating state of insecurity in our country . Perhaps that platform could have offered mr president the opportunity to cross fertilise ideas with elected representatives of the people. But unfortunately, it is a promise which he later failed to honor by demurring. And in my reckoning, not honoring the invitation by the lawmakers is another lost opportunity to dialogue and connect with Nigerians who might have empathised with him, given the fact that there has been some not so obvious stumbling blocks being put on his path by some members of the international community. I reckon that, not negotiating with the insurgents is the crux of the matter as it could be the much anticipated game changer and one of the reasons this crisis has lingered for too long like a bad sore or metastasised like cancer. Believe it or not, most of the insurgents are Nigerians and they have their grievances that may have or lack merit. We are all familiar with the stories about the origins or what triggered the armed resistance by Boko Haram in maiduguri, Borno state. Something as mundane as enforcement of wearing or resistance to wearing helmets by motorcyclist in Maiduguri, for instance. Thats one of the innocuous incidents which some ascribe to a combination of impunity on the part of some members of the extremist sect and executive high handedness exhibited by leaders in the state government that triggered the rebellion. So, if the insurgents have an axe or to grind, as l had earlier outlined, the various levels of Nigerian leadership are culpable in the brewing up of what might have offended them, as we must have failed to empathise or reason with them when they expressed their grouse or displeasure. That is the underlying reason for my conviction and concurrence with Chinua Achebe that the trouble with Nigeria is leadership as evidenced by actions and inactions of some of our leaders that have failed to step up to the plate as patriots. I know that as for the Boko Haram sect, as their name indicates, their disdain for Western education is ostensibly the grudge. But l would like to assume that it was not the original focus of the group , so there must be other underlying reasons. Why can’t such grievances be brought to the threshing floor or a table for negotiations, so that relevant leaders and leadership can see whether they can collectively find a common ground. As a country, our leaders would not accept that our children won’t go to school to acquire Western education as that would be a throw back to the stone age. But the sect may have other demands that may be reasonable, attainable and implementable. How long can we keep living in denial by not recognising that the insurgents have been winning the battle as evidenced by the cruel and devastating blows that they have been inflicting on our country and its security apparatus or architecture? The evidence is overwhelming: from the kidnap of Chibok girls 6 years ago in Borno state, killing of 59 boys in Buni Yadi school the in Yobe state, in the same 2014, to abduction of Dapchi school kids 4 years after, in 2018, and now Kankara boys kidnap a couple of weeks ago, which is 2 years after the last major abduction of school children. What’s more evidential of the success of Boko Haram in their nefarious enterprise than the fact that practically all the schools in the north east and north west states have been shut down for fear of kidnap or killing of school children as reflected by the recent harrowing experience of Kankara boys who now have to live with the nightmarish experience of spending about a week with their captors in the deep forest. Those are major trophies that the insurgents have been garnering to the chagrin of our military that often appear to be flat footed. Owing to the horrific memories that it would evoke, l don’t fancy dwelling on the incredible number of the dead from the consistent destruction of innocent lives and livelihood in our country in the past one decade. So pardon or excuse my lack of interest in repeating the benumbing figures of the dead that the Red-Cross and other humanitarian agencies reckon as being sent to their early graves by the insurgents or their variants, ISWAP and bandits masquerading as herdsmen. His eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, who is the respected leader of Muslims in Nigeria, Saad Abubakar put it best in the course of the solidarity visit by northern traditional rulers to Zabarmairi in Borno state where the blood of 43 rice farmers was recently spilled in the most inhumane manner. The visibly upset monarch , in company of fellow traditional rulers, stated the following: “We have written papers, sent our Governors, we have discussed with all our leaders, all the way forward. “But we see things getting worse and worse. It used to be Boko Haram alone in Borno and Yobe. “Now it is all over the north in particular and generally all over the country. “You have bandits and terrorists all over the north, you can’t even move freely, in the south it is the same thing. The killings have taken new dimensions and we really don’t know what the causes of this mass killings of innocent people are.” He did not spare his former constituents-the military from where he retired as a Brigadier General. The respected traditional ruler had the following to say . “I read the comments that the governor made a few weeks ago, challenging the military to take the fight to the Lake Chad to clear that place. “Your Excellency while I was a Lieutenant, I was at Lake Chad in Baga for six months, my battalion in Bama used to rotate with the battalion in Monguno and Maiduguri every six months. “We occupied Lake Chad part of Nigeria for six months. “I was a Lieutenant, I was the operation officer and I have my maps. In Lake Chad that time we had 36 islands under Nigeria, we occupied 16 of them. “The biggest was King Nasara. We controlled that part of Nigeria effectively well as a battalion. “Now I don’t know why we can’t occupy the whole of Lake Chad and why we can’t occupy the whole of Sambisa Forest”. Although the Kankara boys have been recovered, the sultans advise is still germane. To echo, the sultan why can’t the Nigerian military occupy those locations identified to be sanctuaries for the outlaws? What truly are the inhibitions? Without doubt, the insurgents have definitely been winning not only the battle, but the war, hence Nigerians seem to have lost faith in our military as evidenced by the current gale of denunciation of the leadership of the armed forces now pervading the atmosphere. To be concluded tomorrow Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts university, Massachusetts, USA and a former commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION