And happily it was good news (that Trump did not have his way) for most Americans who voted for Joe Biden and, by extension, the world at large, that are about to heave a sigh of relief from the combative and tumultuous Trump’s presidency that has seen the USA gravitating from one face-off with one country or continental organisation to another, and therefore constituting a threat to global socio-economic harmony. After the conscientious politicians who constitute the various state electoral colleges resisted Trump’s unholy pressure to subvert the system that has sustained the USA’s democracy since George Washington , (the 1st president of the USA who reigned from 1789 to 1797 ) successfully transferred power to his successor, President Trump has not relented in his nihilistic intentions to thwart the ascension of president-elect, Joe Biden to power as the 46th president of the USA. His latest antics was the refusal to sign in to law the bill that was passed by congress and which would help the long suffering American workers ease the devastating pains of unemployment arising from COVID-19 pandemic. The bill which had seen both the Republicans and Democrats wrangling as they engaged in a battle of wits in parliament with respect to the size of the budget to be allotted towards ameliorating the pains of millions of working class Americans who are in dire need of succor via the payment of $600 unemployment benefits to each of them that have lost their jobs. Happily the bill was eventually signed sunday night after nearly one week of dilly dallying by the president. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Historically, presidents in the USA don’t succeed in their re -election bids after they fail to perform well, especially while dealing with socio-economic crisis such as war, terrorism, hurricane, and pandemic of any sort . It’s on record that 6 American presidents in recorded history have failed to get second term mandate . These include William Taft who served as the 27th President of the U.S. (1909-1913). He won due to his friendship with the very popular outgoing President, Theodore Roosevelt . He however fell out with his mentor in the course of his first term, so he could not successfully secure a second term on the goodwill of Roosevelt whose shoes he could not fill. What A Year! From First To Third World: The USA That Trump Would Bequeath To Biden (1) Next is Herbert Hoover who was the 31st President and served from 1929 to 1933. The stock market crash of 1929 occurred immediately after Hoover entered office, leading to the Great Depression. He was blamed for his failure to stem the economic and financial losses, so he got defeated in 1932 by Franklin Roosevelt, the only U.S. president to be elected to more than two terms. Another president that failed to get a second mandate is Richard Nixon, (1969-74) who resigned as 37th president as a fall out of Watergate Scandal revolving around his administration’s attempted burglary into the Democratic National Committee headquarters and a cover up of his involvement until it was unraveled . After Nixon is President Gerald Ford who served as the 38th president of the United States. According to public records, Ford came to the presidency as the only person never to be elected vice president or president. He became vice president under the 25th Amendment when President Richard Nixon’s Vice President, Spiro Agnew, resigned in disgrace. Ford was appointed vice president by Nixon and confirmed by congress. As the Watergate scandal escalated, Ford became president after Nixon also subsequently resigned, becoming the first U.S. president in American history to do so. Ford then pardoned Nixon of all crimes committed while in office, an enormously unpopular decision. He was thus defeated by Jimmy Carter, the 39th president (1977-1981). Carter also lost his re-election bid following the outrage that trailed the failed rescue of American hostages in Iran. Ditto for George H W Bush (1989-93), who is the 41st president of the USA that lost his second term bid in the wake of the failed and some would say , unjustified USA involvement in Gulf war 1 which saw the country occupying Kuwait after it was liberated from Iraq. The economic toll from the war, cost George H. W Bush his second term bid. In the case of Donald Trump , the 45th president of the USA , it is essentially his failure to step up to the plate by dexterously managing the on-going COVID-19 pandemic that is his Achilles heels. Apart from his identity politics rooted in American nationalism as reflected by his ‘America First’ mantra , the proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back is the apparent lackadaisical attitude of president Trump towards Covid-19 pandemic resulting in his mishandling of the crisis arising from the deadly coronavirus that has killed over 333,000 Americans and still counting , representing one out of every 1000 Americans. The situation is made more grim by the fact that although Americans constitute 4% of the world population, yet the death toll in that country represents a quarter of the world’s death toll. For lack of dexterity in managing such a medical crises situation that has degenerated into tragedy and calamity resulting in the death of Americans in epic proportions, Trump was bound to join the likes of ex presidents Jimmy Carter and George H W Bush who are the most current members of the club of one-term-presidents of the USA . Although the last ritual towards the realisation of Biden’s presidency would happen on the 6th of January when Vice President Mike Pence, (by virtue of his dual role as senate president) presents the electoral college results to a joint session of the senate and House of Representatives for ratification, it is a reality that the real estate/property mogul and tv talk show host turned politician, barely 5 years ago, is yet to come to terms with. He may still be hoping to literarily pull a rabbit out of the hat as magicians do, in furtherance of his desperate quest to extend his stay in the magnificent White House whose construction commenced in 1792, and which was completed on November 1, 1800 and has been home to all USA presidents ever after. Without a shred of doubt president Trump has led the most controversial presidency since Richard Nixon (1982-74). But contrary to the majority of opinions about his mishandling of COVID-19 pandemic and his well known narcissistic attitude and demagoguery, he harbors or nurses the view that he is the best thing that has happened to the USA since the discovery of penicillin which was the most effective medication against small pox that had at one point in time (like Covid-19 pandemic) wreaked havoc on mankind. Clearly, from reversing the fortunes of the USA from 1st to 3rd world through his scotch earth policies , history won’t be kind to Donald Trump as it has been celebratory of Lee Kuan Yew, the very well venerated ex-prime minister of Singapore who catapulted his country from 3rd to 1st world as documented in his widely published book. In a seminal book by two Harvard University dons, titled” How Democracies Die”, the duo of Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt detailed how elected leaders can gradually subvert the democratic processes and system to increase their power. According to the social scientists, when they embarked on the project of writing the book published in 2018, they had the notion that the culprit would only be in far way Africa , South America or Middle East. But they had no inkling that such a country that would typify a dying democracy due to the subversion of the system by its leader, would be the USA and a perfect example of such a leader would by the 45th president of the USA , Donald J Trump. Who knows if there are other arrows in president Trump’s quivers as the world waits with bathed breath for his next actions on the 6th of January which is the day the outgoing Vice President, Pence would present the electoral college result to the joint session of the senate and the House of Representatives, as a traditional precursor to the swearing-in activities at midday of 20th of January 2021 , when Trump is expected to exit the White House after handing over to Joe Biden as the 46th president of the USA. Baring all the political acrobatics and theatrics that could be unfurled by Trumpists to delay the process, the procedure should normally be a mere political ritual in fulfillment of the spirit and letter of the rules of transition of political power from one president to the other introduced by George Washington hundreds of years ago . The only other snag is: would president Trump personally hand over the reins of government to President-elect Biden as has been the tradition, or given his current foul and sore disposition, would he outsource the task to Vice President, Mike Pence? If president Trump’s maverick nature is taken into consideration, anything can happen on 20 January, 2021. But regardless of Trump’s shenanigans, ultimately on that day or a later date , Joe R Biden would mount the saddle and be given the nuclear bomb code as the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces of the USA. Meanwhile, the incoming president’s job is well cut out for him. By every indication, Joe Biden and his team would spend his first term healing the very badly wounded country. And they would start by bringing down the walls built by Trump to separate white America from black America and blue America from red America. At the same time ,they would be in a hurry to recalibrate the global position of the USA (where it has lost a lot of ground) to reclaim her prime position as the true leader of the free world through words that unite the world and by engaging in noble actions around the world that would promote love towards and between all of humanity. My advise to president Trump is that before he embarks on further misadventures or gambits aimed at facilitating his impossible ploy to self perpetuate in office, he should take to heart the admonition of president Buhari to the Gabonese coup plotters in 2019 which is that “ the era of coups is long gone” . Specifically, it is about time that president faced the reality that the era of Trumpism has come to a screeching halt; therefore, it is time to move from the White House back to his property at no 1100 Pennsylvania avenue in Washington DC as he had planned to, if he had lost the elections in 2016 or to his Mara-La Go resort in Florida since he has declared himself a persona non grata in New York by changing his state of residence owing to the rash of legal actions against him with respect to alleged improprieties bordering on tax issues, which forbids him from living in his Trump Towers property in New York. Most of all, as he engages in the 11th hour game of granting pardons to his friends and family, he should not forget to pardon himself for obstructing justice via his offer of state pardon to his acolytes that could have served as witnesses against him, but instead took his offer of state pardon and thus engaged in perjury. Better still, when he can no longer stand the heat, as the proverbial long arms of the law encircle him, he can seek asylum in Nigeria. I believe his request would be granted, as l’m optimistic that president Buhari would not be as mean as Trump has been to victims of human rights abuses from around the world who have been seeking asylum in the USA, but whom Trump decided to erect physical and virtual walls against. Concluded. Onyibe, an entrepreneur,public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts university, Massachusetts, USA and a former commissioner in Delta state government, wrote in from Lagos. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION