AKURE – A lawmaker representing Owo constituency II at Ondo State House of Assembly, Dr Olayemi Adeyemi, has called on public officeholders to have a change of attitude on how they manage their constituents after securing appointments and voted into offices. He gave the advice on Monday at Iyete, Owo Local Government Area of the state while disbursing cash to some petty traders and artisans to boost their businesses as well as giving out motorcycles to farmers for purpose of conveying their farm produce to the market. Dr Adeyemi said: “I want politicians like me to work towards changing the narratives and the belief that politics is all about enriching oneself at the expense of the populace who most often give their mandate to politicians. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “People of good character, honest individuals, professionals and religious men and women must contest for political offices since their abstinence means vagabonds and people of dirty minds will always be at the helm of affairs in the country thereby signalling a bad and corrupt future for all.” The All Progressives Congrese(APC) chieftain, popularly known as “KoKo”, disclosed at his fourth empowerment programme the he had sunk boreholes, graded some rural roads, awarded scholarship to some varsity undergraduates and disbursed cash to petty traders, artisans to enhance their trades. COVID-19: Over 700 Infected In Seoul Prison FRSC Urges Passengers To Caution Reckless Drivers The Chairman, House Committee on Local Government, noted that if political officeholders delivered on their campaign promises, the masses would not have bad impressions about them. He emphasised that periodic empowerments of the underprivileged would go a long way in reducing high rate of poverty in the country. According to Dr. Adeyemi, it is very bad of some politicians abandoning the people who voted them in immediately after they have won only to come back after four years to seek re-election. Giving reasons why he’s awarding scholarships, Adeyemi said education  remains a life investment in the people as beneficiaries would be useful to themselves, their families and the society at large in the nearest future. Scores of people received various amounts of cash gift, motorcycle and two varsity undergraduates received scholarship for different academic programmes. He disclosed that with the latest two, he had awarded 12 scholarships in the last three years while two of them would be graduating this year. Among the beneficiaries, Mrs. Fadekemi Adejori(hairdresser) and Itunu Ajikan, a student from Ipele, who got financial support and scholarship respectively, promised not to disappoint the lawmaker. The event was attended by the Executive Chairman of Owo Local Government, Chief Samuel Adegbegi; the Chairman of APC in the local government area, Chief Sydney Ogunleye as well as APC chairmen and members in the six wards of Owo constituency II. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION