Nothing could be as bad as doing wrong thing at the wrong time with wrong people. We have watched the traffic gridlock in all parts of Lagos State for the past few months and unfortunately, we have seen the lackluster attitude of most of the workers while passing through the single lane designated for all vehicles, especially on Third mainland bridge. It goes to show how we plan in this country. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It equally showcases the attitudinal posture of our leaders once a certain ugly situation won’t affect them directly. The issue of man loss hour doesn’t really count in this country. The issue of life preservation and protection are all out of the thinking process of most of our leaders. Vydah Debuts With Insanity, MI Corazon 2020 Needs To Be Over, Says Adekunle Gold We are living like a people who are deliberately pinched by wickedness and as such, everyone must be inflicted with the agonies of wickedness either consciously or not. The same road networks in Lagos State for the last thirty years are still what we patch on a yearly basis. We couldn’t think that we need road expansions and other mode of transportations and as such, we never envisaged that the number of cars will always increase as the years pass by. Third mainland bridge repair has become a nightmare and daymare to all Lagosians and pitifully, instead of the work gravitating positively, we have noticed a job that is being executed by local bricklayers and welders. In a sane society, before the contractors will be mobilised to the site, they must have been able to assemble the necessary tools and materials, because such jobs are of necessity and must be treated as an emergency work. This is because of the envisaged traffic problem that commuters will face. In that instance, the job must be a priority placement and whosoever is going to be the contractor must be a reputable company. Unfortunately, what I have been noticing since the beginning of Third mainland bridge repair work was more of a confused contractor without any idea of the effects of delays in executing such project. On Friday, 11th December, 2020, I decided to take a critical analysis of the work and the workers attitudes. I was not impressed at all. I saw few elderly people discussing about the traffic gridlock instead of focusing on their jobs. I saw a local hired welder battling with his tools and laying iron rods. The welding was really what I could describe as welding a damaged house gate than such magnitude of a project. I now realised why most of our infrastructural projects never last. Take a look at most of the ongoing projects and you will discover that the projects, especially roads get damaged even while constructions are going on. We give contracts to unqualified companies and definitely, we won’t expect a quality job. The same scenario is playing out in most of the government appointments, where sentiments are more meritorious than merit expectations. Third mainland bridge shouldn’t take more than a month to complete if the government has any inclination of the enormous amount that are being lost everyday because of traffic gridlock in Lagos Island. What should have been done: 1. Before mobilisation to the site as I have earlier stated, everything should have been moulded with specific information on the particular spots that need amendments or repairs. 2. The contractor should be informed to work 24 hours. 3. The issue of diversion was erroneously earmarked because the connecting network of moving from one lane to another slows down the movement momentum of vehicles. The contractor should have allowed free flow of traffic within Third mainland bridge axis by allowing vehicles to connect from Carter Bridge and Oworo ends rather than within the bridge. 4. The contractor main objective should be to couple the already built shaped bricks or irons on the specific areas and only weld them together. As at now, the contractor is doing everything right on the spot. That’s out modeled way of road or concrete repairs especially in a busy city like Lagos. The skeletons of the marked spots are fabricated outside and immediately the contractor comes to the sites, it will start positioning the fabricated material into the already visible space being dig as fabrications are going on. 5. The workers are not that serious to complete the project and it gives credence to some Nigerian workers attitudes to put in their best in certain situations. 6. Lagos State or FGN didn’t take time to appraise the job, and that could be probably, why there was no emergency or serious appraisal of the economic impact of such project in Lagos. 7. Strategic planning process that must take into account of a detailed priority sequencing of projects and with accurate understanding of the impact of traffic gridlock on the citizens lives and their economic growth. Every project must not be ambiguous or a public show of stewardship, but an added value for everyone and government. A demoralised mind is an unproductive operation and the society is the most affected. 8. The traffic situation in Lagos has not triggered Lagos State government in thinking strategically and as such, there’s no proactive approach to traffic gridlock problem in Lagos State. In an ideal society, road networks should have been expanded as the number of cars are increasing. Construction of fourth mainland bridge won’t help the traffic gridlock in Lagos, rather, efforts must be made to embark on a massive light rail way project. Modern cities are taking urban transportation seriously and as such, are engaging on mass transit transport system. The roads in Lagos are over stretched and with no foreseeing plans to expand the road networks. The railway contract from Badagry to CMS, already engaged should be completed as soon as possible and that way, Lagos State should have a relief to traffic gridlock. Plans should be on top gear to start a LIGHT RAIL PROJECT from Ikorodu with connecting joint at 7up Tollgate with Ogba, Ikeja, Berger down to Ojota enroute through Third mainland bridge and Ikorodu road that will link up to National Theatre main railway station. Another link should connect from Ojuelegba via Tejuoso to Yaba, Oyinbo and Idumota. It’s very sad storyline to note that a contract that ought to end in January ending 2021 has been extended to the end of February 2021 without any cogent reason. The same scenarios are very glaring at Mile 12, Ketu, Ojota, Otedola Bridge and other road repairs that are ongoing right now in Lagos. My question: In the contract agreement concerning Third mainland bridge repair, was there no clause that imposed certain penalties for default if the contractor failed to complete the project at an agreed time? Third mainland bridge is a welcome development but the project execution was nothing else but an ugly report of unseriousness. Dr. Sunny Oby Maduka (DSM), is an Author, Resource Personality, Management Consultant/ Trainer, Chartered/Certified -Aud i t o r / A c c ount a n t , Financial Compliance Expert, Economic/Political Analyst Strategist, Marine Expert and Motivationist) SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION