Sir Joseph Ari, the Director General (DG) of the Industrial Training Fund (ITF), in this interview with OJOGBANE ONOJA, gave highlights of how the fund trained over 500,000 Nigerians who are now using the skills to earn sustainable livelihood. Excerpt: How would you assess your first tenure as Director-General of Industrial Training Fund (ITF), and what are we expecting in your second term that has just commenced. I recall that I commenced what I can in this context describe as an arduous journey on the 26th of September 2016, with uncertain, diffident initial steps that over time I became confident and took giant strides that reverberated across the country. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! When I accepted this appointment four years ago, I was in no illusions as to the magnitude of task that awaited me. I was aware that the organisation that I had served in several capacities was in shambles. I was equally conscious of the fact that the ITF family that I have known was a thing of the past, as competing and divergent interests and opportunist elements had turned apart its renowned togetherness. Its unity of purpose, singleness of aims and clarity of objectives had equally being eroded, given way to a work environment that was toxic, unfriendly and unhealthy. First Bank Launches Campaign To Combat COVID-19 Spectranet Wins Best 4G LTE At BoICT 2020 Awards It was little wonder that our stakeholders expressed great dissatisfaction with our services. It was against this backdrop that on assumption, I promised to do two things, to work as unto GOD in order to transform the ITF, and to heal wounds. Today, I am grateful that to my management and staff as regard the collective support that has characterised the fund. I can confidently say that we not only achieved and performed remarkably on both counts but indeed exceed all expectations given the condition we met on ground. What has become of ITF’s Reviewed Vision on assumption of duty four years ago? Under ITF Reviewed: strategies for Mandate Actualisation which my management unveiled on assumption under my first tenure, we were able to train here over 500,000 Nigerians that are today using the skills acquired to earn sustainable livelihoods. We also expanded our training infrastructure by completing and commissioning several projects, namely: the Mechatronics workshop and administrative blocks at the Industrial Skills Training Center (ISTC) Kano, Katsina area office complex with an administrative and vocational wing, Lagos Island area office complex, e-library complex and stores in the Headquarters and classroom blocks at the ITF Staff School. It is noteworthy that most of these projects had been abandoned for decades. Together with the establishment of six new area offices in Lafia, Gwagwalada Badagry, Owerri Rumoukwuta, and Abakaliki, Access to our services was made much easier leading to an exponential increase in the number of Nigerians that are trained by us. What have you done to ensure ITF Clients are given efficient and effective service delivery? In order to ensure more efficient and effective service delivery and prompt response to the needs of Nigerians and our clients, particularly, we automated most of our processes including training services, financial transactions, remittance of training contributions and Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme, (SIWES). Today most of our activities are paperless as they are seamlessly performed digitally, and in real time. It is clear that what we did was viewed favourably by Nigerians. As a mark of government’s appreciation in 2018 and 2019, the council for the development of the Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), which is headed by Vice President , Prof. Yemi Osinbajo , rewarded us with prestigious award of excellence as outstanding MSMEs Clinic Partner and the award for outstanding contribution to the developments of the MSME in Nigeria respectively , even as other individual and corporate awards poured in torrents from all corners of the country. As further indication of the appreciation of the Federal Governments for our contributions, particularly to the developments of the MSMEs in the country as part of the national response to COVID-19, this initiative, which is part of governments economic sustainability plan, has brought to the door steps of Nigerians to stimulus programs: the survival fund and the guaranteed off take stimulus scheme, which are meant to empower MSMEs and cushion the effects of the pandemic. But far more significantly, our strides got the endorsement and validation of President Muhammadu Buhari, who graciously approved the renewal of my appointment as Director-General and Chief executive of the ITF. Let me use this opportunity to appreciate President Buhari for first appointing me as Director-General /CEO, and for giving me another opportunity to further contribute my quota to the development of our dear country. Similarly, let me also extend my gratitude to our supervising Ministers in the Federal ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, and his counterpart, Ambassador Maryam Yalwaji Katagum , who recommended me for re-appointment and gave us wings to fly by generating policies that provided the needed impetus for us to achieve not only our targets but also strive and excel. Their wise counsel and sound advice since their appointments Ministers was in large part, also responsible for all that we achieved. What is ITF doing to tackle the challenges that COVID-19 has created in the country in the area of job losses as a result of the Pandemic. Let me say that we are still in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world. In our dear country Nigeria, as a result of the pandemic, unemployment has risen just as many Nigerians lost their jobs. We are indeed in a national emergency that requires every Nigerians to join hands and work together. It demand of us, therefore, as the leading capacity development institution in Nigeria to urgently and significantly contribute to assist our stakeholders and the economy to overcome this challenge. In this regard, my management was conscious of the expectations even before the announcement of my reappointment, and therefore unveiled the second phase of the ITF Reviewed Vision: Strategies for Mandate actualization. The Plan, which implementation has already commenced and will terminate in 2024, is targeted at rectifying the pitfalls that were observed in the implementation of the first phase, build on the achievements thereof, and directly address emergence challenges of our stakeholders as a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic. The plan has nine focus areas, namely : direct training services, Revenue generation and sustainable funding, Resource utilisation, special intervention programs , Human capital development, Students Industrial work experience scheme(SIWES), Research and Development, Automation of business processes and other programs and services . What should the government and your clients be expecting from your management in the next 4 years under your administration at ITF? Our expectation is that in the next four years, the ITF will further escalate and amplify its activities especially with regard to skills acquisition and empowerment of the youths and indigent segments of the society as well as strengthen the micro , small and medium enterprises sector through need-based training in view of the vital importance of the sectors to national growth and development especially, in the likes of the economic diversification agenda of the federal government . The ITF will also continue to invest in expanding its infrastructures in order to create opportunities and open up our services to all Nigerians desirous of acquiring skills . Presently, we have completed eight projects, which are awaiting commissioning. These projects includes, the Gusau area office complex and vocational wing, Minna Area Office complex and vocational wing, Aba area office complex and vocational wing ,Awka area office complex and vocational wing, the Headquarters conference centre, Auditorium and Gymnasium, as well as the multipurpose building in Maitama Abuja. It is our commitment to persist with this pace of the infrastructural developments despite financial challenges until we are convinced that ITF has enough facilities to effectively accommodate as many Nigerians as possible that are desirous of acquiring technical skills. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION