The world-famous American lottery will offer a gigantic jackpot of N106 billion in its draw on Saturday, December 12, 2020, and amazingly, you can play it—safely, securely, and legally—online from Nigeria! It’s official: the U.S. Powerball jackpot didn’t fall in its draw on Wednesday, December 9, 2020. The five numbers drawn were: 11, 14, 31, 47, 48 and the Powerball number was: 4. As there were no jackpot winners, the top prize rolled over and will be up for grabs in the next draw. You can buy official Powerball tickets without leaving your home in Nigeria, and play for the US$277 million jackpot (N106billion), this Saturday, December 12, 2020. Participation in the draw is possible when you use the world’s leading online lottery ticket service: The Lotter. According to Adrian Cooremans, The Lotter’s spokesman for Africa, it is possible to play American lotteries from Nigeria as “lottery rules clearly state that you do not need to be an American citizen or resident to play, nor is there any law in the United States prohibiting a foreigner from winning the lottery.” Thousands of Nigerians have already begun using the services of The Lotter to safely and securely purchase official tickets for Powerball and other well-known lotteries from around the world. If you want to know how you could possibly win Powerball by playing at The Lotter, please keep reading. How do you play? * Mastercard is the leading payment method in Nigeria for online lottery play. You can play the lottery online at The Lotter on your desktop computer, on your mobile device, or with the free theLotter app, where you also gain access to results and information for over 100 lotteries from around the world. To download the app and get started, click here: How does it work? About The Lotter The Lotter is the leading online lottery ticket messaging service in the world, enabling people everywhereto play, and possibly win, the biggest international lotteries. Since its launch in 2002, The Lotterhas paid out more than $100 million in prizes to over 6 million winners from across the globe. The biggest winners at the site have included a woman from Panama who won $30 million playing Florida Lotto, and a man from Iraq who won a $6.4 million Oregon Megabucks jackpot. Thousands of Nigerians have won lottery prizes using the services of The Lotter, including a man from Lagos who won £20,000 in a UK Lotto rafflein December 2017. In its upcoming draw on Saturday, December 12, 2020, Powerball’s jackpot stands at a staggering US$277 million. Nigerians who buy their official Powerball tickets at The Lotter will participate in the draw with the same conditions as if they were physically purchasing their tickets in the United States. Make sure to guarantee your participation in the upcoming draw for your chance to win a multi-million-dollar Powerball prize. Good luck and please play responsibly!