WARRI – Chief Christian C. Ighodaro Whiliki, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, has dumped the party for the All Progressives Congress (APC) with hundreds of his fans and supporters. Chief Whiliki joined the APC, citing impunity and disregard for elders in the managing of the affairs of the PDP in Udu as reasons for dumping the PDP, pledging to work with leaders of the party to give the APC a resounding victory in the 2023 general elections. Chief Whiliki officially enlisted in the APC fold on Wednesday evening when he hosted the APC meeting in Udu Ward 10 in Aladja, promising to embark on aggressive political evangelism towards building the APC into a veritable force to upstage the PDP for the impunity, insolence and audacious abrogation of the democratic rights of the people, which he said, has characterize the PDP in Delta State could be routed. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He lamented that the PDP was descending deeper into the abyss of arrogant and apparent disregard for democratic ethos promoting gangsterism, insolence and crass impudence in suppressing the general wish of the people to the extent that the elders do not have a say on the progress of the party. ‘’I am a man who has paid his dues politically. As a High Chief of three Kingdoms in Urhoboland with three prestigious titles including the Avwarotovie of Udu Kingdom, Omakelovie of Arhavwarien Kingdom and Okobelebele of Ogor Kingdom and Defacto President General of Aladja Council of Elders, I do not wish to be in a party where I cannot be heard or taken into account in decision making. Nigerians Must Look Forward To Prosperous 2021 – Makinde Anambra: One Dead, Four Injured In Multiple Motor Accidents “PDP has refused to learn from the unruly and undemocratic behaviours that motivated Nigerians to chase the party out of Aso Rock in 2015. Here in Delta State, PDP is taking the people for granted. “Everything is being dictated with unmitigated impunity from Asaba and today, I am glad to announce to all that I have decided to dump the evil cult called PDP for the progressives and darling of all Nigerians, the All Progressives Congress,’’ he declared to the applause of those present. Receiving the decampees, Sir Richard Odibo, Honourable Commissioner, National Population Commission (NPC), expressed delight with the decision taken by Chief Whiliki and his supporters, assuring them that he would get the best of treatment as a prominent political catch of the year in Udu LGA. Odibo, who was represented by Chief Fred Okaka, appealed to other PDP leaders to join the progressive train, noting that the tsunami that would sweep through Delta State in 2023 should meet them in the APC since PDP would be chased out of Dennis Osadebey House in the coming general election. The ceremony was attended by High Chief Oletu Chiapele, HRH Boboje Chipi, the Amanayabor of Akasa Kingdom and Hon Lawrence Owumi, former Councillor, a foremost youth leader in Udu and firebrand grassroots mobilizer who also dumped the PDP to join the progressives, depleting the PDP in Aladja of vital election-winning value ahead of the coming polls. Chief Christian Whiliki is a seasoned politician of no mean repute who has served in various capacities over the years. He was Youth Leader of the then United Party of Nigeria (UPN) in Udu in 1978 and had the likes of Chief Paulinius Akpeki, as his contemporary and Youth leader in Sapele in those days. He also served as Ward Chairman to the defunct National Republican Convention, NRC under Okpe LGA and later pioneer Udu LGA Chairman of the Democratic Party of Nigeria, DPN in 1997 on the creation of Udu LGC in 1996 under which, the Late Chief Austin Ogbaburhon was elected pioneer Executive Chairman of Udu LGC. He was also State Organizing Secretary of the then APP when Chief Andrew Orugbo was elected Chairman of Udu LGC in 1998. He later joined the PDP and in 2007, he was appointed member of the Alhaji Musa Yar’Adua/Goodluck Ebele Jonathan Presidential Team put together by HE Chief James Onanefe Ibori. Since then till date, Chief Whiliki has played very significant roles in promoting the PDP before getting fed up and moving into the APC. On his enlistment into the APC fold, he was quickly appointed Senior Legislative Assistant to the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and has since resumed duties in Abuja. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION