LAGOS  – Tourists from both Nigeria and overseas have celebrated Christmas festival in Calabar since 2004, enjoying the climax of the Carnival Calabar, the biggest street party in Africa. But this year, they will not venture out, preferring to stay safe at home during the COVID-19 pandemic. Chairman, Cross River State Carnival, Mr Gab Onah confirmed that 2020 Carnival Calabar will not take place as the state government is determined to curb the spread of Coronavirus. The government has also instructed all nightclubs across the state to shut down till further notice citing the surging virus around the world. “It is no news that the second wave of COVID-19 is already surging in Nigeria with an increasing number of persons being infected with the virus, especially during this festive period with people travelling from one point to the other in Cross River State,” Onah said in a statement. He quoted Cross River State Commissioner for Health, Dr Betta Edu’s health directives copiously and stressed that COVID-19 Response Team is calling for immediate action by members of the public to prevent further spread of the virus in the state. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He went ahead to mention measures that must be noted and complied with. These include: All residents in Cross River State are required to use their facemask at all times in public places. Continuous disregard for this safety protocol shall be met with sanctions; Aisha Buhari Tasks Groups On Women, Girl-Child Emancipation Reopening Nigeria’s Borders Will Boost Tourism – Stakeholders Use of hand sanitisers and regular washing of hands to avoid infection is strongly recommended for individuals while public and private establishments are required to provide for this in their premises; Public and private organisations are encouraged to work remotely from home, which is the green zone to reduce contact and prevent the spread of Coronavirus. All health workers and other emergency workers or first responders/ essential service providers will continue to provide services but must protect themselves at all times to avoid infection with; The 10 pm to 6 am curfew imposed by the state government remains in place. The protocol of ‘No Mask No Movement’ must be enforced at all public places such as offices, businesses, markets and shops; All places of worship (Churches, mosques, etc.) must ensure compulsory use of facemask, hand sanitisers, hand washing facilities and also that no gathering exceeds 50% of the maximum capacity of the venue. Avoid public gatherings and parties as much as possible this period. If you must attend stay alert and protect yourself and loved ones at all times. All event planners must ensure that any planned gatherings do not exceed 300 people. This is important to prevent reversal sanctions by taskforce at your event. Ample ventilation must also be maintained at all times in all venues, and thorough cleaning of the premises must be carried out before and after every event. A minimum of two meters’ distance should be maintained between seated guests. Persons travelling into the state should observe compulsory isolation for seven days before mingling with members of the public and even family members, especially older family members with other disease conditions that make them more vulnerable to dying from COVID-19. Air and road transporters must ensure to enforce the use of facemask, hand sanitisers and temperature check for all customers before boarding the flight or vehicle. This must be used throughout the duration of the journey to avoid spread. Failure to comply shall lead to sanctions for the transporter by the taskforce. Staff must also be educated on recognising COVID-19 symptoms and must link the state response team ones there is a suspected case. Security agents have been mandated to ensure full enforcement, without exception. Avoid travelling this festive period if possible as this will further heighten the risk of spread. You could be putting your loved ones at risk! Any and all breaches of these regulations and public health protocols will lead to immediate closure as well as attract sanctions and penalties. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION