The three decades crisis that has rocked the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) has remained unabated, but in this interview with BOLU-OLU ESHO, Pastor Tunde Adanri-Omojuwa, Coordinator, The Patriots of Christ Apostolic Church (Worldwide) spoke on the genesis of the crisis and proffered the way forward to bring the divided Church of CHRIST together again. Excerpts: The Christendom has been thrown into crisis by the lingering division in Christ Apostolic Church for the past 30 years. How did the church get to this situation? Everybody knows that Christ Apostolic Church is reputed to be the mother of Pentecostalism in Nigeria and Africa. But in September 1990, at the annual Pastors’ Conference held in Ilesha, Osun State, some senior pastors in the Church erupted a revolt which, according to them, was aimed at reforming the leadership and deliver the church from the private ownership of ministries which was weakening her unity as a Church. Following the initial success of the coup which was earned through violence, intimidation, brainwashing, and campaign of calumny against the authentic leaders of the Church, the plotters who called themselves “FORUM INITIATIVE” followed the military pattern of coup plotting by quickly renaming their new outfit within the Church as the “General Executive Council” of Christ Apostolic Church. With the help of the money bags among them who sponsored the coup and the high connection they had with the law enforcement agencies, they took over the administrative secretariat of the Church from the authentic leaders and set up their own leadership structure with a parallel government to that of the Supreme Council from which they seceded. This coup, has since 1990 (30 years ago), divided all members, pastors, elders, deacons, and youths of the Church along two factional lines – “The Supreme Council” and “The General Executive Council.” Several efforts were made in the past by prominent politicians, traditional rulers, and respectable church leaders who mediated between the leaders of the two factions to no avail. As at today, there are cases of both factions against each other in all the courts in Nigeria – Customary, Magistrate, Federal High courts, Appeal and the Supreme Courts. Unfortunately, there has been no legal settlement coming from any of these courts. The factional leaders, especially those of the General Executive Council who disunited the Church, have also remained unyielding and elusive to mutual reconciliation. It’s worth noting that Pastor E.H.L. Olusheye, who was one of the plotters and who, after the coup, ruled the General Executive Council for over 14 years, went to the Federal High Court in Ibadan on June12, 2015 to swear to an affidavit. He clearly confessed and stated in the affidavit that, in 1991 and 1995, he and some other leaders of the General Executive Council faction obtained, through “improper” means, a certificate of incorporation from the Corporate Affairs Commission in Abuja. This was done to legalize their unbiblical secession from the Supreme Council of the Church. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It is, of course, incredible that such revered spiritual leader of the Church could hide this truth for many years while he allowed the Church of God to wallow in the pains of disunity and in the wastefulness of the litigations even when he knew the truth that could reconcile the church and settle the disunity problem. This dishonest action was made by him and others in order to legalize the illegality of their faction’s unbiblical secession from the Supreme Council of the Church. We strongly believe that the Church or any organization could be reformed without breaking up its corporate unity if the reformers have unselfish motives. By the connivance of these plotters with some top officers of the Corporate Affairs Commission in Abuja, Christ Apostolic Church, today, has two certificates of incorporation from the Corporate Affairs Commission with each of the two factions in the Church (The Supreme Council faction and the General Executive Council faction which seceded from the Supreme Council in 1990) having a certificate of incorporation that bears the same name and the same registration number with each other – A criminal act indeed. So, we can say that the Corporate Affairs Commission is responsible for the 30-year old crisis that has disunited Christ Apostolic Church by giving another certificate of incorporation, in 1995, that bears the same name and registration number of the original certificate that is with the Supreme Council of the Church to a break-away faction, The General Executive Council faction. On the “forged” certificate with the G.E.C., the office of the Attorney General of the Federation and the Federal Ministry of Justice have instituted a criminal charge since August 29, 2002 against its leaders. The case is presently at the Court of Appeal in Ibadan but the leaders of the G.E.C. faction have been trying with all their efforts to suppress it. Why Corruption Persists In Nigeria Despite Auditors’ Efforts – Nzechukwu Despite Recession, Covid-19, e-Commerce Is Growing In Nigeria – Jumia CEO Has there been any drastic step taken to resolve the crisis at any time? Yes. In September 2011, after the expiration of Pastor E.H.L Olusheye’s 14-year rule as the President of the General Executive Council faction of the Church, he single handedly hand-picked Pastor Abraham Olukunle Akinosun as a trusted fellow and without any consultation or approval from the Board of Trustees or the General Council of the Church. When he (Pastor Abraham Olukunle Akinosun) officially assumed office in 2012, he made reconciliation overtures to the Supreme Council leaders. The Church initially thought he was sincere about this move until it was later discovered that he was only playing game for his G.E.C. faction to swallow the Supreme Council from which they contentiously seceded in the year 1990. In his eight-year rule as the President of the G.E.C. faction (from March 2012 till February 2020 when he retired), Pastor Abraham Olukunle Akinosun made many promises, especially the one he published in The Nation newspaper of November 10, 2017 in which he promised the Church and the world that read the publication that he would reconcile his General Executive \Council faction with the Supreme Council and reunite both factions under a new administrative name. Rather, he too, like his predecessor, has worked against the reunification of Christ Apostolic Church and failed throughout his eight-year rule to fulfill his promise to reconcile the two factions and reunite the Church. As of today, it is unbelievable that there are three political parties or factions and three factional Presidents in Christ Apostolic Church. They are: the Irefin Supreme Council with Pastor Henry Ojo as its President; the Anlugbua General Executive Council with Pastor S. O. Oladele as its new President, and the Agbowo Supreme Council with Pastor Samuel Olu Ogundare as its President. They all have their General Secretariats in Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria. What a condemnable confusion in the House of GOD. A Spiritual person is compelled by these many parties in Christ Apostolic Church to ask the following questions: (1) Could this politicized Church be the same Christ Apostolic Church which our founding fathers and the Great Apostle Ayo Babalola suffered enormously for to protect her existence, sustenance, and unity? (2) Could this Church which has been factionalized for 30 years be the same Church that gave birth to many great denominations in Nigeria and Africa and who have all been enjoying corporate unity? (3) Could this crisis-ridden Church be the same Christ Apostolic Church that has produced great international evangelists, spirit-filled prophets, and sound Bible teachers who have all influenced the Christian faith round the world? It is pathetic that the position-seeking leaders ruling the factions in Christ Apostolic Church since the 1990 crisis have undoubtedly trivialized and messed up the primary purpose for which Christ established His Church. Do you see an end to this crisis in the nearest future particularly now that there’s a new President of General Executive Council faction? Well, let me answer this question by saying, in Nigerian Church history, denominational crisis is not peculiar to Christ Apostolic Church. The Methodist Church, Celestial Church, have all had their own share; but the leaders of these denominations, who seem to be more spiritually mature and more heavenly-focused than the factional and the political “rulers” we have in Christ Apostolic Church, allowed their passionate love for CHRIST and their self-less love for the unity of Christ’s church to overrule their factional differences and preferences. These helped them to quickly overcome the crises which for some few years disunited their churches. The question then is: Why has it been so difficult, since the past 30 years, for the factional rulers in Christ Apostolic Church to reconcile their differences and reunite the Church of God especially when they all still bear the same name, Christ Apostolic Church? What are the hidden factors behind their failure to reconcile and reunite the Church of CHRIST? Nevertheless, with the recent appointment of Pastor S. O. Oladele as the new President of the General Executive Council faction, there is much expectation that he would not follow the rigid and the anti-unity path of his predecessors. His unity and good governance campaigns in the 1990s following the crisis of disunity that engulfed the Church have since made him popular. We, therefore, call on him to use the privilege of his new position to rise again and defend those values which he singularly championed in the early years of the crisis for the unity and the good governance of Christ Apostolic Church. We say categorically that the present fabricated-union between the General Executive Council and the Agbowo Supreme Council and some allies who recently deflected from the Irefin Supreme Council to join the G.E.C. faction is a deceitful parley aimed at high-jacking the original certificate of incorporation of the Church which is in the custody of the Agbowo Supreme Council. It is also a devilish game to edge out the Irefin Supreme Council from which the G.E.C faction seceded in 1990. Such dubious gimmickry will never help us to achieve total and seamless reunification. The G.E.C leaders have been in such self-centered and deceitful game for years. In order to fully reconcile and reunite Christ Apostolic Church, we strongly suggest, and with warning, that within eight weeks (two months) from the date of this publication, the President of the General Executive Council faction, being the largest faction in Christ Apostolic Church, should call a PEACE SUMMIT of the stakeholders comprising the leaders of the Supreme Council Irefin, the Supreme Council Agbowo, the General Executive Council Anlughua, WOSEM, C.A.C. Students Association, C.A.C. Olugbode, Associates of Pastor (Papa) John Dada Obafemi (the first President of the G,E.C.), and the leaders of the Unity-Advocating Group (The C.A.C. Patriots) to discuss and prayerfully fashion out the biblical way to put the 30-year shameful crisis of disunity behind us and to reconcile and reunite our Church. No faction or group should be left out if we truly want to have a lasting, biblical, and CHRIST-centered reunification. In addition, the General Executive Council must be prepared to allow an equitable sharing of the principal positions of the Church among all the three factions so that there will be a good sense of belonging of all the factions in the reunited Christ Apostolic Church. It is this sharing of the principal positions that the factional leaders of the G.E.C. factions have been avoiding since over two decades, and it is what has been dragging and forestalling all the reconciliation efforts till today. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION