Fears that Nigeria was very close to a second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic gained strength last week with reports that 1,145 new cases were recorded within twenty-four hours. That figure, registered on Thursday, December 17, 2020, represents, according to reports, the highest number of Covid 19 infections recorded on a single day since the virus announced its odious presence in the country in late February. Although, there was a slight decrease in the number of cases in the days following, what has become clear now is that urgent and very serious measures must be adopted by both the authorities and the citizenry to ensure that this fresh challenge is swiftly contained. Since this rise in new cases, eleven deaths have so far occurred while 335 recoveries have been reported. The total number of Covid 19 cases witnessed in the country since its first occurrence is, according to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), 76,207. The NCDC further said the new infections were witnessed in 23 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Once again, the highest number of cases daily are supplied by Lagos and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! At a national briefing last week, the Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on Covid 19, Mr. Boss Mustapha, who was represented by the Minister of Aviation, Mr. Hadi Sirika, dropped the demoralizing news that judging from recent developments, the indication was that Nigeria had “entered a second wave” of the infections and the country stood “the risk of not just losing the gains from the hard work of the last nine months but also losing the precious lives of [her] citizens.” He, however, stated the belief of the PTF that that if the country could do the right things and “adhere to the NPIs and step up [her] testing and detection, loss of lives will be minimised and the rising curve will begin to flatten.” According to him, Nigeria is “in a potentially difficult phase of the COVID-19 resurgence,” because, “accessing the hope offered by the arrival of the vaccine is still some time ahead.” AfCFTA and ACBF’s 7th Africa Think Tank Summit FG’s N70bn Offer To ASUU “The real threat is upon humanity and the progress made in the global health sector in the last five decades or more,” he said. Following the spike in the rate of infections, the Federal Government has ordered the reopening of isolation and treatment centres across the country. The number of active cases has reportedly risen from 3,000 to about 5,000. While reports say that the Federal Government is studying the situation and mulling a national lockdown, some state governments have taken some preventive measures to combat the virus. The Lagos State Government, for instance, has ordered the closure of schools from Monday, asked civil servants from Level 14 downwards to work from home, reduced the hours allowed for religious programmes to two and banned clubs, concerts, street parties and all forms of public gatherings in the state. A few other state governments have also taken similar measures to confront the new challenge posed by the pandemic. The speed with which the new infections are spreading should be cause for serious concern to Nigerians. But many are already gripped by the dangerous illusion that the monster has been defeated and so are shunning the precautionary measures advised by the health authorities. At several public establishments, including even health institutions, both workers and visitors no longer wear face masks, neither do they strictly subject themselves to the basic hygienic observances like washing of hands with soap or using hand sanitizers to keep the virus at bay. Government must, therefore, intensify its awareness campaigns to wake Nigerians from their current passivity and purge them of the tragic indifference that now moderates the attitude of many to the virus. Urgent attitudinal changes must be adopted immediately by Nigerians if they must quickly defeat the virus. At the various public places, like the airports, where some bit of the necessary checks are still being undertaken, the workers are reportedly freely allowing returnees and visitors to avoid the required safety protocols after receiving sundry inducements from them. This not only poses grave danger to the society but helps to instill more doubts in Nigerians many of whom already see the whole anti-Covid 19 effort as a huge scam arranged to bloat the pockets of those in authority. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION