There is a huge probability that Nigeria may have to contend with a time-bomb in the near future unless deliberate steps are taken to curtail the scale of implosion that could lead to acrisis of monumental proportion. Unfortunately, neither is the challenge of population explosion accorded robust articulation in national debates nor factored into policy framework with the view to addressing the worrisome trend. It should be instructive to state that prior to Nigeria’s independence in 1960, the country’s population stood at 47 million compared to UK’s 52 million. Sixty years on, UK’s population is less than 68 million whereas Nigeria’s population conservative estimate stands at over 200 million. This picture which, no doubt, elaborately attests to lack of commitment to managing population growth in Nigeria depicts a future already predicated on brewing troubles; precisely when it dawns that the nation with the 7th highest population growth in the world is this same West African country grappling with one of the worst global poverty rate index. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The implication of unmanaged population in the future also speaks to the myriads of social menace in the country including banditry and insurgency which recently earned the gloomy profiling of the country as the 3rd most terrorised society in the world. Unfortunately however, denial of the grim implications of uncontrolled population inexorably further accentuated the leadership deficit that has plagued the country over the decades. It’s Time For Electronic Voting Kankara Abduction: Before The Security Bubble Burst It is lamentable that political leadership across the board remained insensitive to the fact that population management has become key issue in governance and development; particularly in the light of dwindling national revenues and increasing public expenditure. Beyond the frenzy of periodic head count by National Population Commission (NPC) which regrettably has also become a subject of political manipulation as successive census figures have remained largely disputed, Nigeria has no existing policy aimed at taming unbridled population growth. More disturbing is that not only is the germane issue of population management rarely accorded deserved attention in policies, it would also appear there is conspiracy of silence amongst political elite regarding the imminent danger of population explosion. It is regrettable that the political elite who ought to appreciate the danger population explosion posits for the polity as well as the health of the country in the immediate and foreseeable future have so far remained apathetic. Only recently, a member of the Federal House of Representatives, Alhassan Doguwa stirred controversies when he noted on the floor of the lower chambers of the National Assembly that he was not yet done with the business of procreation notwithstanding that he already had 27 children and 4 wives at the time. It is disturbing that Nigeria; judging by absence of policy statement, so far, on managing population is yet to come to terms with the far-reaching challenge which the current trend of population growth portends in the near future. Indeed, there is the likelihood Nigeria’s population may be itching towards the mark of half a billion within the next two decades. Unfortunately, the threats arising from population explosion are rarely accorded appropriate priority in appraising the deep-seated social malaise confronting the country. From all indications, Nigeria can only ill afford to wait till tomorrow before putting measures in place to, in unambiguous terms, begin the process of curtailing the current trend of population explosion. The fear that tomorrow may even be too late already is not exaggerated but rather a reflection of the obvious reality playing out as the situation in the country in recent time has shown. It is instructive to note that the current trend of population growth could no longer be excused or denied on the pretext of religious belief or some cultural fixations. The danger of unmanaged population growth is already too evident to be denied; considering that valid indicators across Nigeria’s city centres, towns as well as remote neighborhoods clearly attest to the fact that the society currently asphyxiates under the weight of population explosion. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION