Two years after the UN aid agency for Palestinian refugees lost its biggest donor country, many civil society groups around the world are trying to at least partially meet the needs of hundreds of thousands of residents of Lebanese refugee camps. The financial situation of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) has been increasingly teetering since US President Donald Trump declared in 2018 that Washington would no longer provide nearly a third of the organization’s total budget in a major blow to 5.9 million Palestinian refugees, including 475,000 registered in Lebanon, where they are barred from holding property and employment in certain professions. Many non-governmental organizations like the Istanbul-based Humanitarian Relief Foundation (IHH) have stepped up efforts to ease the situation of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon’s 12 crumbling camps, which have suffered cutbacks in a multitude of services — from health care to education to food rations. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “In this latest period, there have been US cutbacks. But this is not just the US,” said Huseyin Oruc, the deputy president of the IHH. Oruc told Anadolu Agency that besides the US, other Western nations and Arab countries in the Gulf region had also reduced funding for UNRWA, many with economic concerns at home in mind. As a result, the body has been unable to meet the basic food needs of the camps’ inhabitants to the degree that it used to, while other public services have also been adversely affected. This is made worse by the fact that UNRWA is the sole provider of such services for Palestinians in Lebanon. NCDC Records 712 New Infections China To Become World’s Biggest Economy In 2028 On Back Of COVID-19 Response The IHH, along with 21 other Turkish non-governmental organizations, launched a fresh relief campaign this week for Palestinians in Lebanon for whom they hope to conduct 15 projects across various fields. Besides seeking to provide the camps’ residents with food and clean water, they also plan to electrify and repair homes, provide remote lessons for schoolchildren, prevent drug use and help fight the novel coronavirus by opening additional health clinics and procuring vital medical supplies and equipment. COVID-19 poses a particular risk for the overcrowded dwellings that Palestinian refugees have to call home as they navigate the camps plagued by unhygienic conditions and decaying infrastructure. Dr. Mevlit Yurtseven, who heads the Alliance of International Doctors, which is also taking part in the initiative, cautioned that the fight against the virus fell short in the Palestinian camps. “The pandemic hit the entire world […] but people in low-income groups, countries and societies were the most affected. The situation was already bad for Palestinians in Lebanon,” Yurtseven told Anadolu Agency. He underlined that though concrete data had not been gathered on the issue, it was likely that due to the economic conditions in the camps, not enough tests were being carried out and that little in terms of treatment was available for those who did test positive. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION