LAGOS – Nigeria Citizens Action Groups (NCAG), a coalition of civil society organisations, youth and student organisations, has described the twist of Bishop Mathew Hassan Kukah’s Christmas message by the federal government, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) and a coalition of Northern group as very unfortunate, unpatriotic and sponsored. The group, in a press statement, signed by Isah Abubakar, President Northern Youth Council of Nigeria and Chairman Nigerian Citizens Action Group (NCAG), and  Engr S A Lukman, President Coalition of North Central Groups, insisted that the respected Bishop deserved an apology from the federal government for an attack on his person for saying the truth. It stressed that Bishop Kukah spoke the minds of 99 percent of Nigerians, and said that the government should make necessary corrections in the areas itemised in the Bishop’s message rather than attack him. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The message reads, “The federal government should apologise to the Bishop and caution her sponsored agents to desist from attacking Kukah because he has spoken like a patriotic citizen who gave his all to ensure the peaceful coming of this administration and stabilise the government overtime with numerous peaceful engagement.” Speaking on the various efforts of the Catholic Bishop to broker peace, the group wondered where the unscrupulous elements were, prior  to 2015 when the Bishop and General Abdulsalam led National Peace Committee perfected the coming to power of President  Muhammadu Buhari as an opposition candidate. UPDATE: Sanwo-Olu Signs 2021 Appropriation Bill Into Law Enugu CP Charges Newly Decorated Officers To Shun Corruption It said, “The same gesture thsr the All Progressives Congress (APC) government could not  have offered was managed by the peace Committee after 2019 general elections for the opposition party to accept the result despite the obvious hitches recorded in the election.” While warning that the youth would resist any attempt to criminalize, arrest or silence Bishop Kukah, who according to the group remains the voice of voiceless Nigerians, the Coalition maintained that President Buhari would go down in history as the only Nigerian who would ever rule the country in this manner. The Coalition pointed out that if not for the President’s level of integrity before ascending power, his administration nepotic nature of appointment and uncoordinated security architect would have put the country into deep crisis that could probably have ended  the country’s nationhood. NCAG urged the government to as a matter of urgency call its agents to order for continued peace in the country. “It is disastrous, unethical and unbecoming of any government, that  sponsored agents of government like Alh Lai Mohammed, the minister of information and culture, the spokes person of coalition Northern Group and Prof Ishaq Akintola Of MURIC could not evaluate the content of Bishop Kukah’s Christmas message, but quickly twisted it as a call for violent change of government.” It stressed that the level of insecurity in the country is alarming, “A situation where traditional rulers are kidnapped and killed, religious leaders are shot dead, retired and serving army generals get assassinated and nothing happened should be of concern to any right thinking citizen. “School children and ordinary citizens get kidnapped, badit attack villages and fulani herdsmen kill farmers on a daily basis with uncontrollable insurgency in many parts of the North East has been a source of worry to us,” the group stated. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION