ONITSHA  – Traders of Haruna Street near Onitsha Main Market yesterday threatened to deal with a woman who wrongly accused a Keke driver of attempting to corner a huge sum of money allegedly forgotten in his tricycle by a passenger. It was gathered that the Keke rider had carried some passengers from Ochanja Market area of Onitsha to Haruna Street without realising that some money had been forgotten in his tricycle by one of the passengers until he reached his final point of destination. The undisclosed amount of money which probably belonged to a passenger who had disembarked before the point of final destination was said to have been discovered by the Keke rider while rearranging his tricycle at the Haruna Street market area and was thanking his stars for a “wonderful” day when a female passer-by who had suspected the intention of the keke rider and immediately raised the alarm which attracted some traders to the scene. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Upon interrogation, the woman claimed that the missing money belonged to her sister whom she came to the area with; while the Keke rider consistently claimed that the woman never boarded his tricycle. It was, however, gathered that it was when the argument degenerated that the market vigilante arrived the scene and demanded they be moved to the market Chairman’s office for his intervention. Before the movement to the Chairman’s office, the young Keke rider had already received the beating of his life. Monarch Tasks FG On Industrialisation, Job Creation China To Overtake United States As World’s Biggest Economy In 2028 However, it was the intervention of the market Chairman, Chief Emma Idoko who probably saved the young man’s pitiable condition as he immediately ordered the vigilante men to stop the beating. The female alarmist who was suspected to have arrived the market for Christmas shopping from Benin/Edo area because of her mastery of “pidgin English” claimed that the money belonged to her “sister”whom she had come to the market with. In his wisdom, the market Chairman demanded that she call the “sister” on phone for identification and clarification on the matter. However, the atmosphere changed when the so called sister confessed that she had not lost any money as the money she had come to the market with was still intact after deducting her expenditure. It was also gathered that the alarmist changed her earlier statement when she realised that her sister was not yielding to her request to claim ownership of the missing money. To the chagrin of onlookers, The female alarmist now resorted to claim that the money actually belongs to her, a situation which prompted the market leader to demand mention of the actual amount she was purportedly missing. The amount mentioned , however, did not correspond with the missing money which propelled suspicion over the woman’s claim .When the market boss requested for police involvement on the matter the female alarmist, however, declined which raised possible suspicion that she had actually wanted to intimidate the Keke rider in a bid to lay claim on the money Our correspondent gathered that it was at this juncture that the market leadership immediately ordered her out of the office accusing her of humiliating an innocent man just for selfish end and apologized to the rider. When contacted, the market leader, Chief Emma Idoko confirmed the incident, stressing that the Keke rider was an innocent man who was wrongly accused because of the woman’s quest for money, noting that he was seeking possible way of compensating the Keke rider who lost half of the SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION