Following the directive to mobile network operators to suspend the registration of new SIM cards, Isa Pantami, Nigeria’s minister of communication and digital economy convened a meeting of stakeholders in the telecoms industry, where drastic decisions that would be implemented within six weeks, were taken. At the meeting, Pantami directed all mobile network operators to obtain National Identity Numbers (NIN) from every subscriber in their networks to enable them to update their SIM registration records. The minister gave subscribers a maximum of two weeks from Wednesday, December 16, 2020 to Wednesday December 30, 2020 to submit their NIN to their network operators. He directed the network operators to block all lines that have no NIN after the deadline. Network operators who fail to comply with the draconian directive on synchronising subscribers NIN with SIM registration risk stiff penalties including the withdrawal of their operating licenses. The deadline was grudgingly shifted to the end of January. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! We believe that Pantami in his trademark dangerous romance with controversy has issued a directive that cannot be obeyed even by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). The directive to subscribers to furnish their network operators with their NIN would be executed by NIMC. Unfortunately, NIMC is just too incompetent and perhaps corruptly influenced by politicians to execute Pantami’s directive at such short notice. The NIMC was established in 2007 to manage the national identity database. However, since 2007 it has only managed to register 41.5 million Nigerians in a population of 206 million. Pantami is now inadvertently ordering NIMC to register 164.5 million Nigerians within six weeks at a period of festivities when people would have no time to queue at registration centres. Kankara Abduction: Before The Security Bubble Burst AfCFTA and ACBF’s 7th Africa Think Tank Summit The process of registering for NIN has been tortuously cumbersome and consequently repulsive. On some frenzied days, applicants seeking to register would wait for four to five hours to get to their turn with the officials manning the computers. In some cases, if one is unlucky, the network fails after one has queued for four hours and the long wait has to be repeated the next day. The registration process was so nauseating that some smart banks leveraged on it to boost their customer base. The affected banks opened NIN registration windows in their branches and registered applicants who are their customers as an incentive for banking with them. Even with that, those who intend to benefit from the service had to get to the banks very early to get the first 100 slots for the day. Even among those who registered, few have actually collected the precious plastic ID cards. NIMC has been very incompetent in the issuance of the final ID cards. In August 2020, there seemed to have been an about turn in the policy on the final ID card. NIMC announced that the plastic ID cards would be replaced with a digital one which would be accessed anywhere. No one knows when that would come into force. Right now Pantami’s directive has worsened an already bad situation. The queues at local government council headquarters, where the registration for NIN was hitherto done with considerable difficulty, has lengthened and might require a whole day to settle a problem which the rulers of Nigeria have inadvertently postponed for 13 years. Even the network operators would have problems implementing Pantami’s draconian directive. The registration of SIM cards started in 2010. By 2016 the network operators were still battling to register less than 120 million lines even with a relaxed deadline. Now Pantami wants them to synchronise close to 200 million NIN with SIM cards within six weeks. It is simply impossible. Pantami’s directive on sychronising NIN with subscribers’ lines is badly timed and insidiously punitive. It is a sad reminder of the insensitivity of Nigerian rulers to the torment imposed on their subjects. Some are already reading the usual Nigerian religious meanings into the ill-timed, clumsy directive. They argue that the directive is designed to thwart the end of year celebrations for Christians. Pantami might not have considered the religious angle to the timing of the directive. However, now that the bad timing of the directive has been drawn to his attention, flexibility requires that implementation of the directive be reviewed because of its calamitous consequences on the country’s economy. The tight deadline for synchronizing NIN with SIM cards would take a calamitous toll on an economy already bleeding from an odd combination of unbridled corruption, gross mismanagement and the effect of the lockdown ordered to contain the spread of COVID-19. The threat to block lines of subscribers who cannot supply NIN within the tight deadline is a grievous miscalculation on the part of Pantami. With restriction on movements still not completely lifted, the economy runs more on Zoom and voice calls. That is what Pantami’s directive would demolish. The blocking of close to 170 million phone lines would ground the economy with catastrophic consequences. We believe that the synchronisation of NIN with SIM cards demanded by Pantami could help in the fight against Nigeria’s horrendous insecurity. However, the consequence of implementing it with such a tight deadline is more calamitous. We call on the minister to relax the deadline in the economic interest of Nigeria. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION