The year 2020 will remain ever indel­ible in history af­ter the ravages of COVID-19 pandemic which not only impacted on all spheres of life but also tasked the best of human capacities, redefining our way of life forever. NICHO­LAS UWERUNONYE pres­ents the kaleidoscope that shaped the year in review. As the year 2020 winds down, not a few people would wish that it could be said as uneventful. In Nigeria, the continent and the world at large, there is hardly any controversy that the year is one marked clearly by the ravages of the COVID 19 pandemic. Like its first incarnate 101 years ago, then as the Span­ish Flu, COVID 19 proved to be a pestilence of apocalyp­tic proportion. But the year 2020 hasn’t been all about the disease alone. The year in review has been marked by some momentous events and happenings as well. Land­mark deals in politics and governance, the entertain­ment world, Sports, global politics and so on. Like all such events and year, it has not failed to present its own list of obituaries, gainers and losers. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! A Pandemic Like No Other For a disease that will so ravage the world, it all began in Wuhan, China, where it was first identified in December 2019. It is said to be a highly transmitta­ble viral infection caused by the virus known as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). In three months, the World Health Organization (WHO) de­clared it, christening it COVID-19, a world pan­demic. COVID-19: Nigeria Reports 829 New Cases As Total Reaches 83,576 The Battles And Victories Of 2020 It rapidly increased with over six million cases in 216 countries across the entire world. A pandemic that started in Wuhan city of China, entered Nigeria in February 2020 after be­ing imported by an Italian, plunging the country’s eco­nomic and political activi­ties into pause that proved long and unraveling. On Monday, March 23, the country recorded its first casualty as declared by the Nigeria Centre for Dis­ease Control (NCDC). And from that point, Nigeria has never remained the same. On Friday, April 17, former chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari, passed away at First Cardiologist Hospital, Ikoyi Lagos state due to the coro­navirus complications. A trusted friend of the president, Kyari’s death shook the whole country. He was succeeded by Ibra­him Agboola Gambari. Ni­geria currently has 82,747 confirmed cases, 70,239 re­coveries and 1,246 deaths, as at Friday, December 25, 2020. Contrary to some com­mentator’s expectations, the coronavirus did not decimate Africa as it did Europe and North Amer­ica. Instead, early govern­ment shutdowns and the rapid closure of borders – along with younger pop­ulations and warmer cli­mates – helped to contain the disease. As a result, Afro pessimists around the world were left sorely disappointed, and spent the rest of the year trying to find the magical ingre­dient that would explain why the continent did not have to be saved by Western donors. This represented a sig­nificant success story worth celebrating, not least because it is a powerful re­minder that African states can act effectively and de­cisively to tackle major na­tional challenges when it is in their interests to do so. Of course, businesses took a hit. The global econ­omy is still counting losses from the COVID 19 pandem­ic. But Nigerian economy has shown remarkable re­silience which was amply demonstrated even after it entered recession later in the year. According to Proshare, an economic intelligence portal, players in the Ni­gerian equities market ap­pear to be riding the waves of the market rally with investors gaining N55.2bn on Tuesday, December 1, 2020. This saw market cap­italisation rise to N18.4tn while Year-to-Date (YTD) return improved to 30.9%, making the Nigerian equi­ties market the 2nd and 3rd best performing market in the world in local currency terms and US Dollar terms, respectively. Growth in the equities market has been driven by domestic retail and insti­tutional investors target­ing Nigerian companies with strong fundamentals, expecting that they will weather the storm of the COVID-19 pandemic and be able to distribute divi­dends to shareholders. The total value of transactions executed by domestic inves­tors on The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE or The Ex­change) stood at N825.94Bn in the first nine months of 2020. It is also evident that the equities market contin­ues to respond positively to macroeconomic policy changes such as the cut in Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 100 basis points from 12.5% to 11.5% by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in September 2020. The Exchange has re­mained resilient even in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. It would be re­called that on Thursday, November 12, 2020, the NSE All Share Index (ASI) post­ed its largest daily gain in more than five years. The ASI rose beyond the set threshold of 5%, triggering a 30-minute trading halt of all stocks for the first time since the circuit breaker was introduced in 2016. It also impacted on sports. In Nigeria, the do­mestic professional soc­cer league which is both a sports and economic event has been put on hold. And so are other sports in the country. Though major leagues have since resumed in Eu­rope and other countries, major international sport meets for the year were can­celed or postponed. These were the top tier UEFA Champions League Final; 2020 Tokyo Olympics will be rescheduled to July 2021; National Youth Game postponed; National Sport Festival postponed several­ly and so on. A Year Of Repression and Resistance Many major events came one after another, from the outbreak of COVID-19. The fact that COVID-19 domi­nated international head­lines and attention made it also to have a detrimental effect on democracy around the world. With the United States obsessed with its own elec­tion and the Trump soap opera, and the UK inca­pable of managing either the pandemic or Brexit, there was precious little pro-democratic leadership on the world stage. Sensing that there would be few if any international punish­ments for even the most blatant abuses, authoritar­ian leaders ceased trying to hide their repression. In Nigeria a key marker of this is the #EndSARS protests. It started like a spark of fire and spread like a bush fire. The Nige­rian political scene was ruffled and shocked by the #EndSARS protests across the country. The #EndSARS protest was a decentralised social movement characterised by a series of mass protests against police brutality in Nigeria which started in October 2020. The slogan called for the disbanding of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), a notorious controversial unit of the Nigerian Police (NPF) with a long record of human rights abuses. The demonstration led to the disbandment of the con­troversial police unit, and also extended its demands towards a good govern­ment with the #EndSARS hashtag gaining momen­tum worldwide. However, government claimed that the protest was later hi­jacked by hoodlums who used the avenue to loot COVID-19 warehouses, vandalise government and private assets and caused mayhem. On the night of October 20, 2020, at about 6:50 p.m, members of the Nigerian Army opened fire on peace­ful #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki toll gate in Lagos State, Nigeria. Amnesty International stated that at least 12 protesters were killed during the shooting. There have been complaints about missing persons and a few have been confirmed to be hospitalized and in critical condition. Insecurity According to the Nigeri­an Security Tracker (NST), a project of the Council on Foreign Relations’ Africa programme, in its last en­try in October this year, different groups in Nigeria resort to violence. The militant Islamist movement Boko Haram is active in northern Nige­ria. Violence among ethnic groups, farmers, and herds­men sometimes acquires religious overtones. A new generation of Niger Delta militants threatens war against the state. Govern­ment soldiers kill civilians indiscriminately. Police are notorious for extrajudicial murder. Doc­uments and maps violence in Nigeria that is motivated by political, economic, or social grievances. Between then and De­cember, violent killings on account of insurgency, banditry and extra judicial killings have ramped up. But one more episode aptly demonstrated the seriousness of insecurity especially in the North. These is the Zabamari killings in Borno after scores were found dead after armed men on motor­cycles gruesomely attacked agricultural workers in northeastern Nigeria. Multiple outlets report that suspected Islamist mil­itants attacked the farmers while they were harvesting the fields in a rural part of the state. Residents said at least 70 were killed during the attack. A U.N. official in the region, Edward Kallon, said “tens” of civilians were killed. “The incident is the most violent direct attack against innocent civilians this year. I call for the perpe­trators of this heinous and senseless act to be brought to justice,” said Kallon, who serves as the resident and humanitarian coordinator in Nigeria. The U.N. Security Coun­cil said that “those respon­sible for these terrorist attacks should be held ac­countable.” Other reports confirmed that 30 of the victims were beheaded in the attack. At least ten women were re­portedly still missing as of that Sunday. Both groups have car­ried out massacres in the region before. More than 37,000 people have died in incidents involving Boko Haram, the Council on For­eign Relations estimates. Incredible Events Of 2020 15 January – 50th anni­versary of the end of the Nigerian Civil War (1967- 1970) 31 January – U.S. Pres­ident Donald Trump ex­panded the travel ban to include Nigeria and five other countries 3 January – 19 people were killed and homes and other buildings were burned by unidentified gunmen in Tawari, Kogi State. 6 January – 30 were killed and 35 injured in a bomb explosion in Gambo­ru, Borno State, apparently by Boko Haram. 8 January – American rapper Cardi B announced she will seek Nigerian citi­zenship. 16 January – Three aid workers who were held hostage since 22 December 2019 were released in Borno State. 24 January – Lassa fe­ver outbreak killed 29 in 11 states. 1 February – The ban on commercial motorcycles took effect in Lagos State. 4 February – $300 million (£230 million) seized from late Sani Abacha’s laun­dered accounts returned to Nigeria. 9 February – At least 30 people killed in Auno, Bor­no State by Boko Haram 14 February – Interna­tional flights to Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos were di­verted to Kotoka Interna­tional Airport in Accra, Ghana, due to poor weath­er and complications with new equipment. 27 February – A stolen bronze statue from Ife in the Yoruba kingdom was seized at the Mexico City International Airport and returned to Nigeria. The statue was later found to be a fake. 28 February – The Feder­al Ministry of Health con­firmed an Italian citizen who worked in Lagos as the first case of COVID-19 in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa. He was confirmed by the Virology Laborato­ry of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Dis­ease Control. 4 March – Four police of­ficers and two militiamen were killed by Boko Haram militants during a raid on an army base in Damboa, Borno State. 9 March – The Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, was dethroned for “disrespect to lawful instructions”. 15 March – Abule-Ado explosion, Lagos State, killed at least 15 people and destroyed around 50 buildings. 23 March – The lead­ership of the Academic Staff Union of Universi­ties (ASUU) declared an indefinite strike over the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information Sys­tem (IPPS) and the non-im­plementation of the 2009 FGN-ASUU agreement. 24 March – About 70 sol­diers were ambushed and killed by Boko Haram in Goneri village, Borno State. 18 April – Armed bandits killed 47 people in attacks on villages in Katsina State. 19 April – Twenty-one employees of ExxonMo­bil from Akwa Ibom State were arrested for violating state quarantine standards in Rivers State, but were released when the union threatened industrial ac­tion. 23 April – Nigeria test­ed only 7,153 people for COVID-19, 0.03% of the population. 873 cases and 28 deaths were reported. 25 April – The Central Bank of Nigeria took N1.47 trillion ($3.8 billion) from lenders as additional cash reserves for failing to meet regulatory targets. 28 April – Gravediggers in Kano reported a mysteri­ous increase in deaths. 30 April – Confirmed COVID-19 cases in Kano triple from 77 at the begin­ning of the week to 219 as health authorities’ ramp up “verbal autopsies”. 6 May – Olalekan Ha­meed was sentenced to death in a trial broadcast on Zoom for the murder of his employer’s mother. 15 May – A controver­sial plan to close Koranic schools in 19 northern states and sending ”al­majirai” home results in spreading COVID-19. Six­ty-five boys tested positive in Kaduna, 91 in Jigawa, eight in Gombe, and seven in Bauchi State. 18 May – Boko Haram ex­tremists attacked a village just as people were prepar­ing to break their Ramadan fast after sundown, killing at least 20 people in the first attack of its kind in north­eastern Nigeria since the holy month began. 30 May – #JusticeForU­wa was trending in Nigeria, with the family of Uwavera Omozuwa family appeal­ing for help to track down her rapists and killers in a church in Benin City, Edo State. 9 June – Gunmen sus­pected of belonging to Boko Haram killed 81 villagers in Borno State. Another 20 people were killed in an at­tack in Katsina State. 10 June – The World Trade Organization ac­cepted the nomination of two-time Nigerian minister Okonjo-Iweala as its Direc­tor-General 11 June – An Aide-de-camp to First Lady, Aisha Buhari, was arrested after shooting at presidential nephew and aide, Sabiu Yu­suf, when the latter refused to go into self-isolation after a trip to Lagos. 12 June – All 36 of Nige­ria’s governors resolved to declare a state of emergen­cy over rape and other gen­der-based violence against women and children in the country. 13 June – Many people were killed in Monguno and Nganzai by terrorists. 22 June – Cross River gorillas including babies, once thought to be an ex­tinct species, were captured on film by conservationists in the Mbe Mountains near the border with Cameroon. 8 July – Nnamdi Aziki­we International Airport in Abuja and Murtala Mu­hammed International Air­port in Lagos reestablished domestic flights after a three-month shutdown. 13 July – A retired American woman was rescued by a Police Intelligence Response Team after being held hostage for 15 months by a 34-year-old man in a hotel. 18 July – Between three and 16 security forces died and up to 28 were wounded in an attack in­side a forest near Jibia in Katsina State. 23 July – Militants from the Islamic State West Africa Prov­ince, which broke away from Boko Haram several years, ago claimed responsibility for kill­ing five aid workers who were kidnapped in June in northeast­ern Nigeria. 29 July – Fourteen people were killed in a mass shooting in Kogi State. 11 August – Musician Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, 22, was sentenced to death by hanging in Kano State for blasphemy against Prophet Muhammed. 20 August – The army regained control of Kukawa, Borno, where the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) had taken hun­dreds of captives on 18 August. 23 August – Two died in clashes between security forces and Bi­afran separatists. 25 August – Eighteen people were killed after Islamic State in West Africa militants planted an improvised explosive device on the road between Monguno and Baga, Borno. 27 August – Dr. Akinwumi Ade­sina re-elected to serve a second five-year term as President of the African Development Bank Group by the Board of Governors of the Bank. 26 September – A convoy trans­porting Borno State Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum, came under attack from insurgents near the town of Baga on the shores of Lake Chad. 20 October – Lekki massacre in the #Endsars protest. Lagos State governor declared a 24 hours cur­few in the state. 31 October – United States Navy SEALs from the Naval Special Warfare Development Group res­cued a 27 year-old American hos­tage held captive by armed gun­men near the border with Niger. 7 November – Democrat Joe Biden won the US presiden­tial election defeating Donald Trump. His victory came after more than three days of uncer­tainty as election officials sorted through a surge of mail-in votes that delayed the processing of some ballots. Biden, 77, crossed 270 Electoral College votes with a win in Pennsylvania. 21 November – Nigerian econ­omy recorded a second recession in the current political dispensa­tion, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the country’s official data agency. NBS said the economy slipped into recession at the end of the third quarter (Q3) which ended in September. Nigeria’s econo­my went into a recession in 2016 following a lull in economic ac­tivities as a result of the delay in the appointment of ministers and other key appointees upon takeover of the reins of govern­ment in 2015 President Buhari. 22 November – Again, Boko Ha­ram terrorists attacked Gover­nor Zulum’s convoy, killed seven soldiers, two others. 8 December – Amnesty Inter­national said 10,000 civilians died while in police custody since the beginning of the Boko Haram in­surgency in 2011. 18 December – Boko Haram freed 333 abducted schoolboys in Kastina State. 22 December – Eighty Muslim schoolboys were kidnapped and then released in Katsina State. 23 December – After months of negotiations, ASUU final­ly agreed to end its long strike action and return to the class­rooms. 25 December – Musa Kwank­waso, 93, the father of former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, died. He was the village head of Kwankwaso be­fore he was elevated to district head of Madobi Local Govern­ment Area and Majidadin Kano by the late Emir of Kano, Ado Bayero. He was recently appoint­ed Makaman Karaye by the Emir of Karaye, Ibrahim Abubakar ll, one of the emirs of four emirates created by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. Earth Shaking Obituaries 9 January – Chukwuemeka Ike, writer. 13 January – Toyosi Arigbabu­wo, actor. 2 February – Peter Aluma, bas­ketball player 4 February – Asiwaju Yinka Mafe, politician 10 February – Ignatius Datong Longjan, politician and Senator 12 February – Victor Olaiya, highlife trumpeter. 14 February – Peter Iornzuul Adoboh, Roman Catholic prelate, bishop of Katsina-Ala 1 March – Pa Kasumu, actor 22 March – Ifeanyi George, footballer 11 April – Dr. Aliyu Yakubu, doctor 15 April – Dr. Emeka Chugbo, doctor 21 April – Richard Akinjide, jurist and former Minister of Justice 30 April – Tony Allen, drum­mer 1 June – Majek Fashek, reggae singer and songwriter 23 June – Shafkat Bose Adewo­yin, Nollywood actress 25 June Abiola Ajimobi, poli­tician, former Governor of Oyo State 28 June – Nasir Ajanah, chief judge of Kogi State 29 June – Bode Akindele, Para­koyi of Ibadanland and business­man. 6 July – Inuwa Abdulkadir, politician 8 July – Jimmy Johnson, actor 14 July – Tolulope Arotile, he­licopter pilot 20 July – Ismaila Isa Funtua, politician August 4 August – Joseph Thlama Dawha, chemical engineer, for­mer managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation August – Buruji Kashamu, pol­itician, former Senator 15 August – Wilberforce Juta, politician, former Governor of Gongola State 31 August – John Felagha, foot­baller 4 September – Ajibade Ba­balade, 48, footballer (Shooting Stars, national team); cardiac arrest 13 September – Ayo Akinwale, actor 17 September – Jimoh Aliu, actor 20 September – Shehu Idris, 84, aristocrat, Emir of Zazzau (since 1975) 12 October – Abai Ikwechegh, 97, jurist 13 October – J. P. Clark, 85, poet 26 October – Theophilus Adeleke Akinyele, 88, civil ser­vant. 5 December – A renowned busi­ness tycoon and former presi­dential hopeful, Chief Harry Akande, died. He was 77. Akande, the Agba Oye of Ibadanland, Oyo State, who once vied for the coun­try’s presidency on the platform of the defunct All Nigeria Peo­ples Party (ANPP), reportedly, died after a brief illness. 11 December – Sam Nda-Isaiah, 58, political columnist, entrepre­neur and journalist, founder of Leadership. 17 December – Peter Yariy­ok Jatau, 89, Roman Catholic prelate, Archbishop of Kaduna (1975–2007). SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION