LAGOS – The recent revelation by Senator Anthony Adefuye, a Third Repulic federal lawmaker on the controversy trailing the issue of zoning for the 2023 presidential election has led to divergent views on the already heated debate of rotational presidency in the country. Before now, the belief of many Nigerians is that the South-West has got its fair share of the presidency since the return of Nigeria to democratic governance in 1999. This is because Olusegun Obasanjo, former Head of State who hails from Owu, in Abeokuta area of Ogun state was the first democratically elected in the fourth republic. Elected in 1999, Obasanjo won reelection in 2003 and handed over to another democratically elected government in 2007. His successor, the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua from Katsina state one of the North-Western states in the country died in 2010, paving the way for the emergence of his deputy, Goodluck Jonathan, who hails from Bayelsa state in the South-South geo-political zone. Jonathan was defeated in the 2015 presidential election by President Muhammadu Buhari also from Katsina state. Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a lot of Nigerans, including Afenifere, pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation have been advocating that the Presidency be zoned to the South- East as the only region that is yet to produce the President. However, Adefuye has a contrary to view. According to him, it is the turn of the South-West to produce the President of Nigeria in 2023 as the only region that is yet to do so since the return of democratic governance to the country in 1999. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! According to him, those clamouring for the Presidency to go to the South-East are not sincere as the region produced former President Olusegun Obasanjo who was in power from 1999 to 2007. He argued that Obasanjo is an Igbo man because his father hailed from Anambra state while his mother is a Yoruba woman. Security Is A Collective Responsibility, Not Service Chiefs Alone – Ojezua Eminent Nigerians Rate Obasanjo Among Nigeria’s Best Leaders He added that while in office Obasanjo concentrated most of his efforts towards developing the South-East, including appointing five Ministers from Anambra as well as the Central Bank Governor from the state while he completely abandoned the South-West. He said: “I believe that in 2023, the APC will zone the Presidential ticket to the South. When it comes to the South, then it will be narrowed down to the South West because that is the only region that has not produced the President since 1999. It has always been the North and the Igbos. “Some people may argue that what about Obasanjo? Obasanjo is not a Yoruba man. He is an Igbo man from the South-East. His father is from Anambra while his mother is a Yoruba woman. And that was why during his tenure, he completely ignored the South West. For example, throughout his eight years, he did nothing on the Lagos- Ibadan expressway. “But he did a lot for his people in the South-East. He picked five Ministers from there and even appointed the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria from Anambra where his father comes from. “So, it is right for the South- West to demand for the Presidency in 2023. What we should be doing now is working towards 2023 to ensure that the Presidency comes to the Southwest. The Southwest has never produced the President before,” he said. Adefuye’s claim was countered by Afenifere who described his statement on Obasanjo’s ancestry as “twisted and perverted logic”. According to Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary ” “That was a twisted and perverted logic. The South West produced Nigeria’s president in the person of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo for eight years 1999-2007. If anyone wants to be President, he should go ahead but not use the name of the highly sophisticated Yoruba race to push through a perverted logic to try to sell his candidacy. Chief Obasanjo is a Yoruba man.” While making further revelations to back up his claim on Obasanjo , Adefuye recalled an incident that happened shortly after Obasanjo’s victory in the 1999 presidential election where he said a delegation came from Anambra to meet Obasanjo, whom they called their ‘son’. “When we were campaigning for him, most of the time I was with him in Ota, Ogun state. After he won the presidential election in 1999, this delegation came from Anambra state and they said they wanted to see him as their son who has just won election”. “Obasanjo refused and didn’t allow them to enter that day. I was with him and was pleading with him to allow them to enter and hear what they wanted to say but he refused. The national dailies flew it the next day. I know Obasanjo very well so I know what I’m talking about” Adefuye said. Adefuye also said he parted ways with Afenifere leaders because they are not honest people. He accused them of cheating the late Funso Williams, a former PDP governoship candidate in Lagos state. He also added that Afenifere leaders are embittered against him for supporting Obasanjo in the 1999 presidential election. He said “Odumakin is a man who talks for what he will get from what he says. He knows no facts. The only sin I committed against Afenifere was that I supported Obasanjo during the 1999 presidential election”. “At that time, they also cheated late Funsho Williams and so I decided not to work with them. I have just been keeping quiet not because we don’t know them. We know them very well. The problems they are facing now, they caused it themselves”. “So, that is why they have no followership anymore. Before it is the party that Afenifere supports that wins election but today, when they are in any political party, nobody is there and they lose because they are never honest. They are not honest people. They don’t speak the truth”. During the launch of a book titled Baba’s Story: Nigeria is 50,” authored by a Ghanaian, Abyna-Ansaa Adjei, Obasanjo, in the 207-paragraph book, traced his ancestry and the political history of Nigeria. Speaking on his childhood, and growing up days, the former President said on page nine of the book: “I was born in a village called Ibogun-Olaogun in what was then Abeokuta Province and which is today part of Ifo Local Government Area in Ogun State. This village is only 30 kilometres from Abeokuta. As a child, I lived in Ibogun-Olaogun with my parents and my younger sister, Oluwola. Our childhood was a simple one spent in a typical Nigerian farming settlement. Our village had less than 50 huts built with mud walls and mostly thatched roofs and the only jobs at the time were farming or petty trading in farm products. “By age five, I had started going to the farm with Papa and that was when he began to teach me about the history, culture and traditions of my ancestors and our land. Our village, though small, was composed of other ethnic groups such as Itsekiri, Urhobo, Igbira, Hausa, Igbo and Ijaw who were also either petty traders or farm hands. My father, who was by every measure, the most successful farmer in the village and in the Ibogun area, was a proud Yoruba man and he told me about Oduduwa, the founder of the Yoruba nation. “Papa had heard this story from his own father, Baba Alarobo, who had heard it from his father, Baba Elesin. Papa said this story had been told for hundreds of years in our family in this ‘father-to-son’ way. Although, my father never stopped teaching us Yoruba culture, proverbs and tradition, he made us also respect the language, the culture, traditions and way of life of other people living in the village.” While some have dismissed Adefuye’s revelation as a joke or comedy taken too far, many political analyst believe that there are some elements of truth in it and it may go a long way in shaping the trajectory of the zoning controversy in the near future. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION