Isa Pantami has a penchant for dangerous romance with controversy. In fact, some think that controversy is the middle name of Nigeria’s minister of communication and digital economy. Sometime in May 2020, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, the efficient executive chairperson of Nigeria Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) ran from pillar to post telling anyone who cared to listen that Pantami was behind the armed men who forced NIDCOM workers out of the apartment allocated to the commission in NCC building. The NIDCOM boss contended that the commission’s computers and other equipment were locked up for weeks, allegedly on Pantami’s orders. NCC offered a lame excuse for the brutal ouster of NIDCOM. At the end of the whole episode Pantami denied involvement in the ouster of NIDCOM. However, those who could read between the lines actually deciphered where the order on NIDCOM’s ignominious ouster came from. The dust raise by the NIDCOM ouster was still settling when Pantami set the whole country boiling with an order that neither the Nigeria Identity Management Commission (NIMC) nor the mobile network operators can obey. The press release from Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) on the controversial directive, deviously gave the impression that stakeholders at the meeting summoned by Pantami unanimously agreed that all subscribers to the mobile telephone networks should supply their national identity number (NIN) to the operators for synchronizing with their registration, and that network operators should block the lines of subscribers who fail to supply the NIN by December 30, 2020, barely two weeks from the issuance of the order on December 16, 2020. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The network operators themselves were not spared the minister’s dangling sword. They were warned that failure to block any line without a NIN by December 30, 2020 would attract severe penalties including the withdrawal of their operating licenses. The deceit in the press release from NCC which gave the impression that stakeholders agreed to the deadline and penalties became obvious last week when the network operators belatedly complained that they would need a minimum of six months to do what Pantami wants them to do in two weeks. They have to verify each of the outstanding 165 million NINs with an organisation as clumsy and rudderless as NIMC before synchronizing with registration. That is not something to do in two weeks. Now That ASUU Has Called Off The Strike Breaking The Silence (1) Even the NIMC has inadvertently admitted that it would need at least six months to assign NINs to 165 million Nigerians. Only 43 million were registered in the last 13 years. Given its abhorring clumsiness and lethargy, NIMC would need a minimum of two years to execute the minister’s order. From all indications, the tight deadline during end-of-year festivities was not the consensus of stakeholders present at the meeting summoned by Pantami. There could not have been a consensus in a gathering of petrified ‘pupils’ and a virulent village headmaster wielding a big stick. The minister just issued a tyrannical directive to the stakeholders and they nodded timidly. The stakeholders chorused a resounding “yes sir” to the catastrophic directive and waited for the minister at the other end when the directive would have plunged Nigeria into economic and social disaster. A few days after Pantami’s threat to subscribers and mobile network operators, subscribers stormed NIMC ill-equipped facilities around the federation for their registration procedures. That was when the first danger endemic in the order was noticed. By some estimates well over 700, 000 applicants descended on NIMC facilities. The NIMC office at Alausa, Lagos was so plagued by a deluge of humanity that the state government dispatched its task force on COVID-19 to disperse the crowd to avoid rapid spread of the deadly virus as applicants threw COVID-19 preventive measures to the wind. Applicants were impatiently shoving without regard to physical distancing in an uncontrollable crowd at a period the virus was staging a dangerous second coming in Nigeria. But the damage had been done. The surging crowd had invaded the building for several hours before Lagos state government could mobilise its task force to the scene. The edgy officials of NIMC did the needful before the state COVID-19 task force could meander its way through columns of traffic gridlocks to Alausa. NIMC shut down its facilities because it could not cope with the surging crowd. That was the first sign that Isa Pantami was marching Nigerians to the slaughter slab. NIMC’s gross incompetence is primarily to blame for the apathy of applicants to the registration exercise. Those who dared to register for the exercise in the last 13 years spent a minimum of five hours to obtain what is dubiously tagged “tracking number”. A woman who did the registration in 2009 went to the NIMC office at Alausa with her 18-month old baby and queued for five hours with her rampaging baby. Today the boy is in JSS-2, but the woman does not have the national ID card. The tracking number issued her that day is rejected anywhere she presents it for identification. That is precisely why few cared to waste their time trying to register for the national ID Card. With the federal government now directing 90 per cent of its workers to work at home to reduce the spread of COVID-19, no one knows how Pantami’s tyrannical deadline on NIN would be met. Even as Pantami has made NIN an emergency requirement, NIMC remains as ill-prepared as it was in the last 13 years. What Pantami has done at a time of COVID-19 resurgence borders on tragic population control measure. The minister is marching Nigerians to the slaughter slab. Thousands certainly contracted the deadly virus on the first day that close to one million applicants stormed NIMC facilities across the nation. Thousands would die in silence from the virus as there are very few testing facilities even after the virus plagued the country for one year. Nigeria’s population is accelerating uncontrollably at something close to three per cent per annum while the economy has been stagnant for five years. The thousands that would die from the infection contracted from the stampeded registration bid may be government’s inadvertent way of controlling a population growing at twice the economic growth rate. The impending massive deaths from COVID-19 would shift by a few minutes, the explosion time of Nigeria’s ticking population time-bomb. Everyone is worried by the graveyard silence from the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19. The PTF has shut down night clubs, hotels, event centers and large gatherings for weddings and funerals but sees nothing wrong with Pantami ordering 164 million Nigerians to obtain non-existent NIN in two weeks at NIMC facilities that cannot seat 20 if COVID-19 physical distancing measures are applied. The PTF has not said a word about the dangerous gatherings at NIMC facilities. That silence borders on murderous conspiracy. Pantami’s orders on NIN is an ill-timed digital war declared on Nigerians. NIMC was not, and is still not ready for the massive registration imposed by the minister’s catastrophic deadline. The public enlightenment programme that should have followed a relaxed deadline is yet to commence. There are reports trending in the social media to the effect that everyone with a bank verification number (BVN) issued four years ago has been automatically allocated a NIN which could be retrieved from NIMC website without the cumbersome registration procedure. That information is not from NIMC and the commission is yet to confirm or deny the claim. Even the network operators have offered to assist the NIMC in a rather belated collaborative move that the commission could have initiated four years ago. The bio-data that NIMC needs for NIN is what the network operators used to register their subscribers four years ago. They have that information on 207.5 million active phone lines. The data could as well be derived from drivers’ licenses, voters’ cards and BVNs. NIMC has not leveraged on that. Pantami’s pronouncements are tyrannical orders issued tyrannically without regard to the catastrophic consequences of blocking millions of phone lines at a time when 60 per cent of the paper works and meetings are handled digitally. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION