ADO-EKITI – A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, has observed that no nation can attain greatness under the present discordant tunes of sectarian crises, ethno-religious crises and insecurity. Senator Bamidele, Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, however, said until the poor masses were allowed to take ownership of governance there may not be an appreciable improvement in the nation’s economy. The legislator, in his New Year message made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti, urged Nigerians not to despair by the poor economic and socio-political indices affecting the Nigerian nation. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Bamidele, who is representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District, said the nation would get better and assume a more dignifying pedestal if the citizens can be patriotic and embrace attitudinal and social reforms. While congratulating Nigerians on the occasion of a new year celebration, the Senator urged them to be more committed to Nigeria’s unity in the new year, for the country to overcome the cankerworms of insurgency, economic woes, kidnapping, banditry, and ethnoreligious crises debasing it. FCT Minister Commends Police Officers For Securing Abuja Nigerians Must Look Forward To Prosperous 2021 – Makinde “No nation can grow under the present discordant tunes of sectarian crises, ethnoreligious cleavages, corruption of high magnitude, and high-level insecurity being witnessed in Nigeria. “It was sad that most of these crises were self inflicted. They were injected into the country’s body polity by acts of gross indiscipline and political desperation of a few, which we have to tackle for Nigeria to regain its lost glories. “In the new year, the leaders and the led must reappraise our nation and find out where the faultlines began and take proper remedial actions that can heal the wounds and reset Nigeria for greatness,” Bamidele. “We must shun corrupt tendencies and allow the poor masses to take ownership of government. This is the best way we can maintain equilibrium and equality in this highly lopsided system. “Let us redirect the psyches of all citizens to the path of sanity, Godliness, patriotism, and selflessness, which are potent ingredients that can catapult any nation to a deserving height,” he added. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION