For a people passionate about festivities, especially religious ones, Nigerians do have a cause to be less cheerful about end of year 2020 activities which, upon medical advice, they are being asked to observe in low key. While their concern is real, Nigerians must equally be mindful that the advice is genuine, based on confirmed second wave of Coronavirus pandemic countrywide. The times call for sacrifice and discipline on the part of everyone, with hope of a safer and better tomorrow. The renewed wave of COVID-19 is hardly surprising considering that the first wave all over the world had not really subsided before cold weather set in again, boosting the disease’ prevalence, which has been known to be virile in cold environment. Unfortunately, most Nigerians dropped their guards for reasons bordering on protocol-fatigue, contingency of survival, difficult economic terrain, carefree attitude and low conviction about the reality of the pandemic. Many people have mouthed, rather ignorantly, that they hadn’t seen any victim of the disease. In truth, such people did not give much thought to the fact that many people, including notable public figures had prematurely lost their lives as a result of complications of Coronavirus. There is no doubt, nevertheless, that Nigeria and most of Africa has been lucky to have climatic conditions that are averse to the thriving of the deadly virus. This accounts for the relatively low infections and deaths recorded in the region, compared to Europe and America. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! All the same, it will be foolhardy to carry on with business as usual, in the face of vivid evidence of a COVID-19 resurgence. The spike in new cases has been appropriately described as unprecedented, compelling the federal government to announce that the country has entered the second wave of the pandemic. A week ago, Nigeria recorded more new COVID-19 cases than at any other week since the first case was established in February. A few days ago, the country recorded 1,145 cases in a single day, the highest daily figure which experts feared may be surpassed if the rate of spread is unchecked. Before the resurgence, Nigeria’s highest number of Coronavirus cases was 745, reported on June 19, this year. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) attributed the second wave to factors including increased local and international travels, business and religious activities with minimum compliance with COVID-19 safety measures for the public. Isa Pantami’s Badly Timed Digital War COVID-19: As Nigeria Grapples With Spike In New Infections In the circumstance, the restrictions announced some days ago by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 cannot come to early. Among other things, the PTF ordered restriction of all informal and formal festivities including weddings, conferences, congresses, office parties, concerts, seminars, sporting activities and end of year events to not more than 50 persons. Religious events are to be limited to less than 50 percent capacity of the hosting facility, in addition to physical distancing, mandatory use of face masks and strict enforcement of not more than 50 persons. The PTF also ordered closure of bars, nightclubs, pubs, events and recreational centres; with exceptions to restaurants providing takeaways, home deliveries and drive-ins. Public transport systems are to carry not more than 50 percent of their capacity in deference to extant social distancing protocols. All schools are expected to have vacated by December 18, 2020, and are to remain closed until, perhaps, January 18, 2021 to enable the measures take effect. Since the announcement, states have been issuing guidelines to conform with the order, as many states, including the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja, have made provision for their peculiarities but with firm instructions to comply with the new order. Lagos State has, in fact, issued its restrictions days before the PTF did. In view of the incontrovertible indications that the pandemic has taken a worse course, not just in Nigeria but globally, it is important that Nigerians respect the restrictions. The situation is also yet another call for Nigerians and the relevant authorities to step up efforts at finding solution to the disease. This has become even more imperative because the euphoria that greeted the discovery of vaccines intended to cure and prevent the disease has waned in the face of controversies over the propriety of scientific methodology adopted in their production. Although international politicking cannot be ruled out of the debate, the overall effect is to cast a shadow on the vaccines’ universal acceptability and consequently its efficacy. Rather than hang local efforts at curing the dreaded ailment, Nigerian health authorities should intensify such efforts, including seeking traditional medical alternatives. Many substances abound locally which have been otherwise proven to boost human immunity and possibly combat the virus. The challenge is to find an appropriate blend and dose of the items to make a complete solution. Besides, government cannot afford to lose focus of the huge expenses that will necessarily accompany ready-made vaccines from Europe and America, given that the makers are first and foremost entrepreneurs seeking profit; and that even international aids in procuring the vaccines will not be given without some cost or conditionality. In particular, Nigeria must also be wary of reports that new strains of the virus are being discovered in Europe, and that the development may yet alter the course of progress already made in finding a permanent cure to COVID-19. There is high hope that an enduring solution will be found to the pandemic. For now, the watchword for Nigerians should be perseverance in observing the safety protocol, and thereby staying safe and alive for that lasting solution. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION