CHIDI UGWU; OLUSEGUN KOIKI The Nigerian Civil Aviation Au­thority (NCAA) will fine any airline $3,500 for each passenger and may be required to return non-Ni­gerian defaulting passengers to point of embarkation for non-compliance with Nigeri­an government’s COVID-19 rules concerning the United Kingdom and South Africa. This is just as the regulator has declared that repeated non-compliance by any air­line will lead to a suspension of the airlines’ approval or permit to fly into the country. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The agency said the new travel rule takes effect from today, Monday, December 28, 2020. The NCAA issued an AOL to all indigenous and foreign operators flying into Nigeria, stating that passengers flying from the United Kingdom and South Africa must pres­ent pre-departure permit to fly/QR Code generated from Nigeria international travel portal and a documentary ev­idence of a negative COVID-19 PCR test result done within 96 hours of boarding. Skinner Louis Now Partner Of Admiral Cigar Club Kumuyi Under Attack Over Alleged Sexual Abuse Of Student The NCAA, in its latest AOL, issued Saturday, Decem­ber 26, 2020, and addressed to country and accountable managers, said government – through the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 – has reviewed the quaran­tine protocols to include that passengers originating from both the UK and South Afri­ca would be received and pro­cessed separately by public health authorities. The CAA also stated that all the new travel rules would be applicable to both sched­uled and non-scheduled pas­sengers from both countries. The AOL signed by the Di­rector General of the NCAA, Captain Musa Nuhu, read: “With the recent spike in cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria and the reported transmissi­ble new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom and South Africa, the Nigerian government, through The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, has reviewed the quarantine protocols. “Passengers originating from the United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa: For flights and passengers origi­nating from United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa with fi­nal destination being Nigeria the following shall apply: “Passengers must present the following two documents in order to be allowed to board their flights to Nigeria: (a) pre-departure permit to fly/ QR code generated from the Nigeria international travel portal (https://nitp.ncdc.gov. ng) showing evidence of pay­ment for the post arrival day 7 COVID-19 PCR test and (b) documentary evidence of a negative COVID-19 PCR result done within 96 hours (4 days) of boarding from verifiable laboratory or health facility. “On arrival in Nigeria, passengers will be received and processed separately by public health authorities and all passengers will be required to self-isolate for 7 days after arrival followed by COVID-19 PCR test. “Passengers with a post ar­rival negative COVID-19 PCR result can exit self-isolation and further management. “A dedicated register of arriving passengers from the United Kingdom and South Africa will be opened and en­hanced for surveillance and active enforcement of these protocols.” The NCAA further clari­fied that the earlier quaran­tine protocol which became effective from September 18, 2020, shall continue to subsist for flights originating from other countries except for the validity of the pre-departure PCR test result which would now be 96 hours from date of departure. On non-compliance, the NCAA stated categorically: “Punitive measures shall be taken against airlines who fail to comply with this All Oper­ators Letters. The punitive measures shall include but not limited to the following: “(i) Airlines shall be fined $3,500 (three thousand five hundred dollars) for each de­faulting passenger. “(ii) Airlines may be re­quired to return non-Nigerian defaulting passengers to point of embarkation. “(iii) Repeated non-compli­ance by any airline will lead to the suspension of the air­line’s approval/permit to fly into the country.” Aviation Stakeholders Divided Over Clamour For UK Flight Ban Meanwhile, players in the Nigerian aviation industry have expressed divergent views over the call in some quarters for the Federal Gov­ernment to place a flight ban on airlines coming from the United Kingdom (UK) where a new variant of COVID-19 has been discovered. While some said the gov­ernment should enhance its surveillance skills and in­crease testing centres, others said the government should not play politics with the pub­lic health of its citizenry and called for immediate restric­tion of flights from the UK. The analysts also warned the government against a second total lockdown of the country, saying that it would have dire consequences on the nation’s economy. They, however, said the government could activate its reciprocity policy against the UK or any other country that stops Nigerians from flying into their countries. Some of those who spoke to Daily Independent said rath­er for the government to ban flights from the UK, it should put in place stringent mea­sures to verify the COVID-19 certificates provided by the country and other countries for their citizens flying into the country. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director, Research, Zenith Travels, said it would be counter-productive for the government to stop UK flights from entering into Nigeria. Ohunayo advised the gov­ernment to increase its sur­veillance across its borders and airlines coming from European countries and oth­ers, stressing that anyone or airline found violating the COVID-19 protocols, as pro­mulgated by the government, should be dealt with accord­ingly. He, however, tasked the government to once again ac­tivate the reciprocity policy, which would enable it to treat citizens of other countries the way Nigerians are treated by their governments. “I think I still support the government moving along the way its citizens are treated. “I understand that many Nigerians will like to come back home during this yule­tide period. “I salute the courage of the government backing down on European airlines not to come in at this time. “If they do not allow Nige­rians to go back in January, I think the government should restore that ban and ask them to stay away.” He added: “I am not in sup­port of banning flights from the UK into Nigeria. “What I can support is making it very stringent by checking the certificates pro­vided by these countries if they are genuine and those who are coming to do the test, they must ensure they do the test. “If they don’t do the test, all the punitive measures put in place should be applied fully to such passengers. “What we need to do is to increase our surveillance of carriers to ensure that those certificates are genuine and confirmed and in line with the protocols given by the government. “If we do that diligently, we will be able to overcome the spread of the second wave.” Alex Nwuba, aviation an­alyst, said the government must place the health of the public ahead of political con­siderations. Nwuba explained that while the Nigerian govern­ment was dilly-dallying over placing a ban on flights from the United Kingdom, tens of countries had already done so and wondered why the government was delaying the ban on the European country. “We must put the health of the public ahead of political considerations; many coun­tries have already implement­ed bans. “These are countries with the capacity to address major demands for health services; we have been fortunate, but it makes no sense to keep push­ing our luck. “We would necessarily need to keep studying the pat­terns and make timely deci­sions in the national interest concerning other countries on the COVID-19 pandemic.” Nwuba, however, kicked against a second lockdown of the country, stressing that such action would have dire economic consequences on the citizens in particular and the country at large. He lamented that the Nige­rian government lacked pol­icies to assist the less privi­leged, but noted that a partial lockdown and restrictions on travel was necessary to get a hold on the pandemic, partic­ularly due to the attitude of the citizens. “Some of the citizens no longer believe there is a threat from the pandemic because people are not dying in hundreds. The problem is if that happens we will not be able to manage it,” he said. Group. Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd) appealed to the govern­ment not to ban international flights, but called for redis­tribution and restriction of airlines from countries with high numbers of COVID-19 to just one airport for easy monitoring. For instance, Ojikutu said British Airways or Virgin At­lantic and other European airlines, in particular, could be restricted to only one airport out of the five inter­national aerodromes in the country. He explained that if such airlines must come into Ni­geria, they must code-share with the Nigerian domes­tic airlines on the domestic routes to redistribute their passengers locally. Ojikutu emphasised that rather than allow foreign airlines to fly into numerous airports at this time, the gov­ernment should have testing centres at the international gateways with adequate man­power and required skills in testing, tracing, and tracking infected passengers. He added: “Pre-testing for passengers before departure may no longer be sufficient to allow them into the country. This was what I recommend­ed in March at the outset. “We must copy South Ko­rea and China. We’ve been on this route before. Often, we take a knee jack or copycat approach within, making an effort to take initiatives that are original to us. “Why not behave the way the South Koreans and Chi­nese had done? Be original. “We may restrict other nationals, but can we refuse our nationals from returning home, especially during a na­tional celebrating seasons as Christmas or any of festive periods? “My worry about possible government’s ban on foreign airlines is that creating sus­pects in another approval for evacuation flights that give corrupt earnings to foreign airlines and government of­ficials in the embassies and ministries, but put excessive financial burdens on the Ni­gerian nationals who will be required to pay thousands in dollars or thousands for a sin­gle way ticket. “We need to watch out so we don’t fall into the same temptations we found our­selves during the first wave of the pandemic.” No fewer than 40 countries have placed flight bans to and from the United Kingdom to contain the newfound corona­virus strain. Even neighbouring Scot­land has already sealed its border and restricted all kinds of travel from the Unit­ed Kingdom. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION