Until this moment Nigerians even the elites, are still seeing insurance as an albatross, a no-go venture where you end up wasting your hard end money. But the realities before us have constantly speaks the contrary given the high healthcare costs, cost of acquiring new properties, or replacement of lost assets to natural cause such as fire, flood, burglary as well as civil unrest as it has been the case of late or when a breadwinner is down on account of critical health condition. Studies have shown that there is a little one can do financially independent without an insurance cover to support the funding when a critical health condition strikes. So, also is when one’s house, properties and other valuable assets are hit by fire, burglary or theft. Same case goes to fatal accident that may leave the victim incapacitated, dead, permanent or partial disability. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Recent report has it that Prince Adewale, a prominent Nollywood actor is critically ill and has run out of cash after trying to manage his now worsening health situation with personal funds for months. Unfortunately, there has not been any improvement even as the illness is becoming more critical to a magnitude that his finances can no longer be adequate to sustain the treatment. We Need Recapitalisation To Retain Big Ticket Risks, Reduce Capital Flight’ #EndSARS Crisis Equates Nigerian Civil War Era In Terms Of Quantum Destruction – LUR Boss Now Prince Adewale is still in pains, he needs to undergo a major surgery, according to the doctor’s report. Prince Adewale’s case is one of the cases about the Nollywood stars, Mr Ibu was once reported to also faced a critical health challenge this year to mention but few. Mr Emeka Rollas, President, Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) had once lamented in a chat with Daily Independent, the lukewarm attitude of Nollywood stars against insurance, saying that they are always unwilling to part with money for the Guild to be able to remit their premium for Group Accident Policy underwritten by Universal Insurance Plc years ago. The Group Accident policy which was put in place in 2018 is about rounding off now and it is not clear whether the new leadership would want to renew the policy. Not only in the Nollywood has the group had the issue of insurance relegated to the background, but most Nigerians do not see insurance as worthy investment until when the chips are down. Insurance, according to economy experts, is the bedrock of any sane society, fund mobilser and peace of mind. Although insurance in Nigeria in the past had a bad image due to lack of payment of claims which, however, is the reason the players are in business. But in recent times due to global exposures, collaborations couple with in-depth regulations and professionalism, best practices Nigeria’s insurance business has come to achieved the new normal implying that Insurance companies no longer shy away from claims. Insurance companies pride themselves with innovative products that address personal needs. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION