LAGOS-  Major General Tajudeen Olanrewaju, (Rtd), former minister of communication has faulted plan to impose a candidate on the ongoing search for a new vice chancellor for the Lagos State University (LASU) Olanrewaju in a release on Sunday said that Lagos people were not going to be buried forever under the burden  and yoke of servitude in  Lagos State, which according to  him is why all conscionable  indigenes of Lagos state should out rightly reject the attempt to impose  Professor Ibiyemi  Bello as the  next Vice Chancellor of Lagos state University. The release read in part, “Tunji Bello was Commissioner at various times, former Secretary to the State Government, even as I write, he is the present Commissioner for Environment. It will good to note this Bello is from Kogi  State. Where else in this nation can a  non-indigene dominate  the public service for this long only because he is close to the tools of power? EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Adding, “To rub salt  upon  injury, his wife who is from  Ondo state is   being  schemed  to occupy the  position of VIce Chancellor  of  LASU  when  there  are better qualified professors frim Lagos State who have been shortlisted for the position. This is the third time Mrs  Bello  will  be contesting  for  the   position in ten  years   in   an undisguised , very  untidy, greedy  fixation.” While stating that it would amount to impunity to impose Ibiyemi Bello on the people, Olanrewaju maintained that other  qualified contenders like  Professor Olumuyiwa Odusanya, Professor Senapon Bakre, Professor  Kabir Akinyemi, and Professor Muyiwa Awofolu shouldn’t be sidelined. Japan Halts Foreigners’ Entry Amid New Virus Strain Scare Skinner Louis Now Partner Of Admiral Cigar Club He wondered why Professor Bello was being pushed so recklessly to occupy the Vice Chancellor’s office as if it  was some  hereditary position in a callous contempt for the indigenes of our State. He said, “Surely,  this is not the vision of Alhaji Lateef Jakande who built the  institution  more than thirty- five  years ago to  give the indigenes a quality education and at once give the  indigenous professionals  a place in the sun.” “This is no longer the case. Our people are being shoved aside amid a crude and dangerous insensitivity in a new recolonization of Lagos.” “They are pushing us  to the wall. They are treating us with contempt.  As a stakeholder and  as a  committed  indigene,  I am  seriously  advising   the authorities to move swiftly away from this callous,   ill-conceived decision whose  untoward implication no one can fathom,” he said. According to him when former Professor Fatiu Akesode contested for the Vice Chancellorship of Ogun state University many years ago, he was rejected and told to go back home to Lagos state. Olarenwaju stressed that  it was totally unacceptable and unjust to take what naturally  belong to Lagosians away  one after the other  by what he called  partisan alien hands. The former minister added, “While I  will continue to encourage merit, fairness in the appointments to public office, I will never stop in the defense and   In  the protection of   the  inalienable rights of  well qualified native Lagosians whose collective destinies are now being brazenly eroded  and trampled upon on their own soil. This is one contempt and insult  too many.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION