How about starting a small business in Nigeria in 2021? According to research, the times of economic crisis and financial meltdown are the best periods to start a business. The good news is that you don’t need a huge amount of capital to start a successful small business in Nigeria. With great business ideas and a good execution strategy, you are on to a successful business venture. You know you want to start something for yourself. You just need to funnel your ambition and time into an idea that will earn you extra cash, make you proud, and possibly lead to a full-time venture—and that amazing moment you get to say “I quit!” to your boss. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The cost of starting a business in this era of the internet and social media technology has greatly reduced. In this post, here are few validated business ideas you can start with almost no capital. Uberpreneur – Driving for Uber I Want To Build A Food Village – Njarika People Should Not Be Afraid To Start Business In A Small Way – Bello There are many different reasons why people choose to drive with Uber. Some do it for the freedom to drive when and where they like. They’re the boss, and they work for as long or for as little as they want, following a schedule that suits their needs. An average Uber driver earns within 80,000 – 120,000 Naira a week. Driving for Uber is one of the most lucrative business ideas in Nigeria right now. It does not only give you the opportunity to work when you want (including nights or weekends) but also give you the ability to earn some extra cash while doing so. While some drivers are doing this full-time, some only do it at nights after day job and on weekends. Social Media / Influencer Marketing Instagram, Snapchat, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook – Social Media is the Next Big Thing. These are platforms where Nigerians are making a load of cash just by sharing engaging contents and building a loyal followers list. This is a business idea you also need to venture into if you are crazy about social media. Build up a following on any of this platform and you could quickly be approached by major brands, gear companies, and other relevant businesses that sell products or services related to the type of content you share. If you have hundreds of thousands of followers, you can easily charge anywhere between 15,000 – 50,000 Naira per post or more—which makes for a very profitable side business idea. Web Design and Development As a web designer or developer, you’ll build incredibly valuable skills that are in extremely high demand in the Nigeria market. You can get up to speed on building websites in as little as a few weeks by using a free tool like WordPress. Aside from having the opportunity to work on your own schedule, you can make as much as 50,000 – 250,000 Naira per website project. If you looking to greatly improve your web development skills, Andela is a great place for you to start and acquire the knowledge you need. Graphic Design While having a formal background in graphic design is absolutely going to be helpful, it’s also relatively easy to learn the foundations of graphic design on your own using tools like Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop. But before you can start earning a living as a graphic designer, you’ll need to build your skills recommend and be creative in all your designs. I recommend showcasing your design skills on platforms such as Instagram and Facebook to earn a good customer base. Freelance Content Development / Ghost Writer Do you consider yourself a wordsmith? Setting yourself up as a freelance content development could prove to be a side-hustle or maybe even a full-time job. Companies in Nigeria such as media agencies, blogs and startups will pay big time for someone who can write a clean copy of contents, whether it’s for advertisements, websites or blogs. Some will even pay you for your editing services. However, consider how much work it takes to make freelancing work your full-time gig. Starting a Blog or Vlog Think blogging is no longer a viable source of income? Think again. Tens of thousands of bloggers, creating content on topics as diverse as cooking, fashion, gossip, news, travel, film, and lifestyle. Starting a blog/vlog with a particular niche and focus on a particular set of individuals is a lucrative business idea with great potentials. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION