The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has taken Buhari presidency to the cleaner over its response to Financial Times editorial on the sorry state of affairs in the nation under President Muhammadu Buhari. The PDP said that the Buhari Presidency’s arrogant trivialization of the nation’s tragic descent to a failed state under the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, further confirms that the nation is on autopilot with nobody in charge, The party asserted that the Presidency’s conceited response to Financial Times editorial on the sorry state of affairs in the nation under President Buhari also further confirms the position of PDP that there is complete leadership failure in Nigeria. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said it is sad that the Buhari Presidency prefers to rebuff wise counsel and continue to drive the nation to the precipice instead of seeking help for the sake of millions of traumatized Nigerians. “Indeed, the editorial by Financial Times is only stating the obvious, as our nation under President Buhari has presented all the trappings of a failed state including having a rudderless government with a dysfunctional command structure that cannot guarantee security, manage our economy or even perform very simple tasks of governance. Avoid Travelling To Stay Safe, WHO Warns Amid Spike In Africa’s COVID-19 Numbers Clergy Urges Nigerians To Intercede For The Country “Our great nation now tends towards a leaderless society where terrorists, bandits, kidnappers, marauders and vandals have taken the lead, running riotous across our land while those who promised to protect lives and property have gone into hiding in Aso Presidential Villa. “Under President Buhari life is fast tilting towards Hobbesian state of nature; driven by the combined negatives of an incompetent and unconcerned Presidency and a reckless, kleptomaniac and dysfunctional ruling party that is more interested in power-grabbing instead of governance. “President Buhari has badly failed in governance to the extent that over 600 students could be kidnapped by bandits in his home state, Katsina, a few hours after his security machinery took over the state, where he had gone to holiday. “Under Buhari’s watch, our command structure has become extremely weak that government officials now patronize bandits and rationalize acts of terrorism to the extent of blaming victims for not obtaining permission before living their normal lives as was the case in the 43 farmers beheaded by terrorists in Borno state,” the party said. The party noted that under this administration, outlaws who had been pushed to the fringes by previous administration have resurged and taken control of some parts of the nation where they reportedly have to give their consent to residents before they can conduct weddings, naming ceremonies or operate their markets. The PDP lamented that it now takes Presidents of neighboring countries like Chadian President, Idris Derby to personally lead his troops into the nation’s territories to rout out insurgents and free Nigerian communities and soldiers held captive by terrorists. On the economy front, PDP said that the Buhari administration has wrecked the once robust economy, destroyed the value of the naira and turned the nation into world poverty capital, where life has become so unbearable that compatriots now resort to suicide and slavery mission abroad as options. The PDP cautioned officials of the Buhari Presidency to stop playing with the sensibilities of Nigerians by their arrogant dismissal of wise counsel on how to redeem the nation. “They should advise President Buhari to take a back seat and allow competent hands to manage critical sectors of our national life before it is too late,” the party cautioned. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION