A coalition of civil society organisations in the South East has criticized leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu for issuing threats to Governors who are opposed to the formation of ‘Eastern Security Network’. Recall that shortly after the formation of the Eastern Security Network by IPOB, Governors from the South East met and immediately denounced it, prompting Kanu to issue a threat to them not to work against the security network or be prepared to face dire consequences. He had also warned local vigilantes in the zone set up by state governors not to allow themselves to be used to carry out what it called evil agenda or have themselves to blame. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The proscribed group equally alleged that the governors were plotting to incite the army against the outfit. But the Coalition of Igbo Groups Worldwide, on Wednesday, lent their voices to the controversies, through a statement, saying the governors deserved commendations for openly denouncing Kanu’s actions. Nursing Mother, 3 Others Killed In Separate Accidents In Delta Female PoS Operator Disarms 2 Armed Robbery Suspects In Edo It warned that unless Kanu’s activities were wholeheartedly denounced by the leadership and all well-meaning individuals of the South East, the region’s quest to actualise its dream in the 2023 presidency would meet strong opposition. The coalition urged the South East governors to make laws that were beneficial to the citizens of the region, and gag Kanu from having any opportunity of operating alternate leadership which according to them was inimical to the peace and development of the South East and Nigeria. The coalition, also alleged in the statement, signed by its affiliate members, that the IPOB leader was a fugitive who was being bankrolled by some self-seeking interests to destroy the South East. Among the groups that signed the statement were South East Mothers Forum, represented by Mrs Achike Ezeife as Coordinator; Ndigbo Progressive Youth Vangaurd which had Barr. Uche Ude also as coordinator; Igbo Unity Congress with Mazi Osigwe; South East Market Women Vanguard, represented by Deaconess Grace Ejike and the South East Youth Network,which had Pastor Andy Okoro as signatory, respectively. According to the coalition Kanu’s decision to pilot the group from a remote area outside the shores of Nigeria was an indication that there were sinister motives to his actions, tasking the people of the region especially youths not to fall for what he is doing. The group said:”We wish to strongly condemn Nnamdi Kalu’s threat to the South East governors and local vigilantes following the governors’ opposition to his illegal activities in the region among which is his formation of a militia group to disturb the peace of our region. “We call on our governors who are elected by the people to represent them not to be intimidated by Kanu’s threat. They should go all out against him by exposing him for what he is, for the betterment, peace and unity of Igbo land. The South East governors should not relent in enforcing law and order in their various states for the good of their people. “It is not in the place of Kanu and IPOB to institute laws for the people of the South East but the functions of governors of the region who were elected constitutionally by their people to act in that regard. So,we throw our weights behind the South East governors and all well meaning citizens of South East who are standing for national unity. ” Kanu and his team do not mean well for Ndigbo. From all indications, it can be glaringly seen that his actions are for his personal benefits and not for the generality of Ndigbo as he tries desperately to portray. “Let us also humbly state that the Igbos have practically demonstrated that they believe in one Nigeria than any tribe because they can be found in almost every part of this nation in large numbers with investments worth billions of Naira adding value to their host communities”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION