While declaring the fourth Meeting of the National Council on Niger Delta in Port Harcourt open on Thursday, precisely on December 17, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari assured that the Federal Government was repositioning the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and the Amnesty Programme to ensure they deliver on their mandates to develop the region. The President, who was represented by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, said the Niger Delta region had suffered so much deprivation and thus needed a new deal, and in that light declared: “We are committed to changing the fortunes of the region to give the people a new lease of life,” stating that the government was addressing the challenges of under-development and insecurity in the region. “The on-going forensic audit of the NDDC was expected to reposition the Commission and galvanise it towards optimal development and provide the needed infrastructure for socio-economic development that the region so much requires. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He added: “Due to efforts and commitment of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, the new headquarters building of the NDDC, which had been on-going in the last 24 years, has been completed and is awaiting commissioning by my administration.” On the status of the East- West Road, Mr. President said: “The completion of the East- West Road, which is a priority to this government, has been handed over to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and I assure you that it will be delivered by the end of 2021 or the early part of 2022.” FG, Lawmaker Train 150 Youths ln Telfairia, Tomato Production Ex-Militant Leaders Resolve To End Sea Piracy, Kidnapping In Niger Delta In his own remarks, Senator Akpabio harped on the need for harmony between the NDDC and the state governments in the Niger Delta region for the benefit of the people. According to him, the disharmony between these critical stakeholders was caused by many factors, including political differences. He advised: “Development should not be tied to any political party because what the people need is development, irrespective of political affiliation. Poverty and hunger have no political party.” Akpabio agreed that the funds coming to the Niger Delta region were not commensurate with the level of projects on the ground, but stated that governments in the region should be held accountable for the 13 per cent oil-derivation meant to develop the oil-producing communities. He advised those blaming the NDDC for all the woes of the region to look inwards and tell themselves the hone truth, adding: “When stakeholders reach out to the NDDC for intervention projects and the Commission intervenes, that is not duplication of projects. State government should ensure that the 13 per cent allocation touches the lives of the people.” Akpabio described the NDDC as an organisation where everybody contributes while it belonged to nobody, noting that there should be synergy between the federal and the state governments. He said: “If we ask why the NDDC has failed, then we have to look back. That is why President Buhari, came up with the forensic audit to salvage the Commission and I think he should be commended for that. We have to know what went wrong.” Earlier in his address, the Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, lamented that although the Niger Delta region was blessed with mineral resources, its people were living in poverty and underdevelopment. Wike, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. (Mrs.) Ipalibo Harry Banigo, said that the National Council on Niger Delta should serve as a platform for the people of the region to articulate their needs and challenges. He added: “With political will, we can overcome the challenges confronting the region, while we continue the struggle for the enthronement of true federalism in the country.” The governor regretted the lack of collaboration between the NDDC and state governments in the region, calling on the Commission to work in concert with the state governments to ensure the greatest impact of projects and programmes for the people. In his response to the assurance made by the federal government, Mr. Usiagwu Arthur Osaretin, the President of the Igbanke General Union (IGU), a town in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State, has commended the government for the move but expressed his reservation, ostensibly as a result of the media attention which both organisations earned in the recent times for wrong reasons. He said, “While repositioning NDDC, the federal government should have it at the back of its mind that there is every reason to turn around the region, which includes Igbanke community, from its legendary deprivation coupled with the fact that the benefits entitled to the region have over the years been squandered on the altar of individuals’ greed”. He explained, since 1999, an estimated N16 trillion, an amount that could build three cities like Dubai has been squandered with nothing to exhibit as evidence of some forms of development. What is sad about the situation is that indigenes of the region have been fingered as part of the web of corruption. They (indigenes) are the architects of the mismanagement of the NDDC and other allied agencies including a ministry created to develop the Niger Delta region. As regard the Amnesty Programme, Usiagwu said it was sad that the “agency has been enmeshed in series of alleged mind- boggling corruption as those managing it over the years have being accused of using the programme as a conduit pipe to siphon funds from public treasury to enrich themselves at the detriment of the intended beneficiaries.” He urged the federal government to ensure that the government reposition both agencies to serve the purpose to which they were created for. He said, while it is commonly believed that the Amnesty Programme has promoted stability in oil production, there are underlying socio-political contradictions that undermine its effectiveness and credibility, and in that light tasked those that are involved in the day-to-day activities of both agencies to do everything possible in ensuring that they achieve the objectives to which they were established for the betterment of Niger Delta people in which Igbanke is affiliated to. Throwing insight to what led to the establishment of the Amnesty Programme, Usiagwu said, the oil-rich Niger Delta region is paradoxically described as the oil pollution capital of the world, and that the region produces Nigeria’s crude oil, and in turn export the product to boost the nation;s earnings. He said, despite that, more than 50 per cent of its youths were remain unemployed or underemployed. Against the foregoing backdrop, the then President late Musa Yar’Adua in 2009 offered an unconditional pardon to militants and cash payments to those who agreed to lay down arms and key into the programme and created the Presidential Amnesty Programme, (PAP). On NDDC, he said its mandate is to offer a lasting solution to the socio-economic difficulties of the Niger Delta Region and to facilitate the rapid and sustainable development of the Niger Delta into a region that is economically prosperous, socially stable, ecologically regenerative and politically peaceful. To this end, he urged Mr. Effiong Akwa, who was just appointed as the Sole Administrator of the NDDC to ensure that the objectives that necessitated the establishment of the agency are attained. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION