Dr. Kayode Olagunju, the Assistant Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), has advised road users to avoid the “last minute” crashes as 2020 comes to an end in few hours time. Olagunju, also the Zonal Commanding Officer for Zone 4 comprising Plateau, Benue and Nasarawa, gave the advice on Thursday. Route Commander Olusegun Owoeye, Acting Public Education Officer, said Olagunju spoke while addressing FRSC operatives at the corps established Help Area located at Agham, at the defunct Toll Gate on Makurdi-Lafia Road. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! According to him, this is the period when the last minute rush and disregard to safety rules and regulations could result in fatal crashes. Olagunju said, “when we are excited to usher in a New Year, we should celebrate with full compliance to safety regulations and COVID-19 protocols.” Arewa Chiefs Disown Publication Against Late Sarkin Hausawa Lagos Police Nab Kaduna Sex Party Organisers He also called on the nurses, marshals and other paramedics stationed at the point to attend to road users with care, render necessary assistances and do their work diligently. The FRSC official conveyed the commendation of the Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, to all the staff for their commitment and dedication to duties, urging them to put in more efforts to save more lives on the road. Olagunju also advised road users against speeding, driving under influence of alcohol or other intoxicants, wrongful overtaking, dangerous driving and other traffic violations that could result in crashes. He enjoined passengers to always caution their drivers whenever they attempt to violate safety rules. Olagunju reminded the vehicle operators to always ensure that their vehicles were in road worthy conditions before embarking on any trip. He enjoined road users to be mindful of the road and weather conditions that could affect safe driving. Olagunju further reiterated that the corps would not hesitate to dispense with the services of any personnel who engaged in extortion, either on the road or in the office. He warned them against touting any of the products or services being rendered by the agency. The ACM said that the command Monitoring and Surveillance Officers, some in commercial vehicles and in mufti, have already been deployed to fish out the bad eggs in the system. The zonal commander then called on members of the public to report crashes, obstructions and misdemeanour of the marshals through the 24/7 toll free emergency number 122. He promised that prompt actions would be taken to address the issues, wishing all road users safe journey into the New Year and beyond. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION