Though the economic terrain of Nigeria will continue to be challenged in 2021, there are prospects for investors to make money in the coming year.  Bamidele Famoofo unveils outlook on economy and investment as recommended by financial experts for 2021. 2020 In Retrospect Investors witnessed historically volatile markets and the fastest equities crash since the 2008/2009 crisis. The combination of expansionary monetary and fiscal policy stances helped mitigate the initial shock of the Coronavirus pandemic, and the consequent liquidity surfeit led to a strong market rebound. As at December 17, 2020, year-to-date the All-Share Index has returned 32.2%, putting Nigerian stocks among the best performing globally. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! At the start of the year, analysts are of the opinion that fundamentals were not strong enough to drive a natural correction in the equities market but that the CBN’s policy directives, which caused fixed income yields to decline precipitously, would offer some respite to the domestic bourse. This played out in January as the opportunity for a dividend yield investment strategy presented itself. However, this could not be sustained over the rest of Q1 on (1) weak foreign participation in the market due to weak macro fundamentals and fears concerning a possible devaluation, (2) weak domestic participation, and (3) the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus. Since hitting an 8-year low in April, the market unexpectedly rebounded strongly by 71.7% at the time of writing. FG’s Bond In December 2020 Oversubscribed By N70bn – DMO Foreign Investment In Nigeria Drops To $9.01bn In 2020 – NIPC The deliberate actions by the fiscal and monetary authorities to drive interest rates down significantly were the primary drivers of the gains. Local investors, who had over N5.0 trillion in OMO maturities to deploy, were left with no choice but to chase positive real returns in the equities market. Following the Q1 sell offs, the equities market provided a massive opportunity for bargain hunting with many stocks trading at huge discounts and offering higher dividend yields than fixed income. Notably, yields on fixed income instruments became technically un-investible – short term treasuries traded at sub-1% levels while long tenor bonds traded below 7%. On fund flows, domestic investors had brought in N159.81 billion into the equities market as of September 2020, compared to N94.03 billion over the whole of 2019. Conversely, foreign investors exited the market en-masse as FX illiquidity issues persisted. Data from the NSE showed that flows from foreign investors were negative in all months of 2020, save for May, when trapped investors re-invested dividends. Overall, foreign investor net outflows have totaled N159.62 billion YTD, a record high, with participation, compared to domestic investors falling to a record low. 2021 Outlook According to a report titled: “Nigeria in 2021, Positioning in the New Normal”, a review and outlook financial report by Cordros Securities, the performance in the fixed income market will be a tale of two halves. The securities company said it expects yields to remain in the low single-digit territory through the first half of 2021, with a moderate uptrend to account for reduced market participation as investors seek yields in other asset classes. A team of analysts that put together the report said a combination of factors will drive investment in the second part of the year.  “(1) weak market participation, (2) revision of monetary policy to a tightening cycle, (3) widening fiscal deficit, and (4) fragile macroeconomic environment will lead to an increase in yields over 2021.” Cordros Securities noted that similar to the fixed income market, “we also expect it to be a tale of two halves for Nigerian equities in 2021, with the market delivering further upside in the first half of 2021 before retracing slightly in the second half on an expected reversal in fixed income yields. The sources of risks remain plenty, the macro story remains uninspiring, and valuations are elevated. However, we think the mix of (1) elevated liquidity, (2) low interest rates, (3) attractive dividend yields, and (4) earnings recovery argues in favour of an extension of the equity bull market into 2021.” All Signs Pointing Northwards Given the balance of factors, Cordros Securities hinted that the signs showed that prospects for investment are tilted towards the upside in 2021. Nonetheless, it is expected that the market will trend downwards in first half of 2021 “ as the monetary and fiscal authorities push ‘lower-for-longer’ yields with the purpose of: (1) pursuing a growth mandate to support post-pandemic recovery, and (2) managing the debt burden of the federal government. However, as issues concerning price levels come to the forefront, we expect policy action to drive foreign portfolio inflows into the country. Consequently, we expect the average yields on bonds to trend upwards to c.7.0%, while yields on NTB instruments trend to c.1.0%. The reason for this disparity is rooted in the demand and supply dynamics between the two markets. The instruments on offer in the Treasury bills market are limited relative to buyers (especially given regulatory requirements), even with a larger frequency of issuances. This should result in market participants’ demand pressuring yields on shorter-dated instruments.” Below Expectations Nonetheless, Analysts apportion a probability to yields being tethered to the low single-digit region through most of 2021, provided that there isn’t widespread adoption of the COVID-19 vaccine, and the situation in the country becomes dire; with increasing cases of infections and deaths. In this scenario, there would be reduced pressure on the reserves due to a likely cessation of travel and weaker levels of imports, amongst others. This would essentially allow the prolonging of the inevitable and result in yields remaining tethered to the lower single-digit region. That being said, we do not believe there is a significant downside for yields from this point. We only see a marginal decline from these levels on significantly weaker demand in 2021. Our view is predicated upon investment managers focusing investments on assets with the potential of generating positive inflation-adjusted returns. Above Expectations The country’s balance of payments position deteriorates further from this point, leading to significant pressure on the currency. This would require FPIs to remain week, just as the price of crude oil remains weak or deteriorates, leading to a precipitous decline in reserves and the CBN’s ability to defend the currency. In this scenario, we expect yields to trend upwards on fixed income instruments precipitously, as the monetary authority would try to attract investors. It’s All Relative Indeed, while valuations remain slightly higher than their historical average, they appear fair when taking into account the level of interest rates. At 691 basis points, the spread between the earnings yield and the 10-year risk-free rate is at records highs. For further comparison, we looked at the Bond Equity Earnings-yield Ratio (BEER). The BEER is a metric that investors often use to evaluate the relationship between earnings yield of a stock market (the inverse of the price-to-earnings ratio) relative to bonds. A number above one indicates that bonds offer more value than equities. The metric shows that for domestic investors, there is more value in equities, compared to bonds, than has been in at least the last seven years. Overall, we think this disconnect between the strong equities and the weak economy could persist. Low rates are likely to continue to provide some valuation support for equities, and more cyclical parts of the market can catch up with the strong performance of defensive stocks as the economy recovers. Dividends To Help Without re-rating, earnings growth and shareholder income should primarily drive equity returns. On the latter, after a slowdown in recent months, companies are likely to return to rewarding shareholders next year in the form of higher dividends. While it may take a couple of years to recover to pre-pandemic levels fully, 2021 is likely to be a much more supportive environment for income investors. However, with a long road to recovery ahead, we believe that the focus should be on the sustainability of dividends rather than their absolute levels. Consensus expectation is that Nigerian equities will deliver c.27.0% y/y earnings growth in 2021, leaving earnings per share 3.0% above 2019 levels. While this may seem optimistic, this year highlighted that many companies can quickly adapt to a challenging environment. Should a vaccine be widely available, and the government continue to support the economy, we would not be surprised to see 2021 earnings coming close to match those seen last year. However, we can expect wide discrepancies in the pace of the recovery at the sector and stock level. Sectors Where Deals Will Be Made In 2021 Banking Nigerian banks, especially the ones listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), showed resilience amid the Covid-19 pandemic, posting an average return on equity (ROE) only moderately pared to 14.1% as of 9 months in 2020 compared to 15.2% in full year 2019. When compared to the performance of peer African nations (South Africa: 13.1% and Ghana: 13.5%), it denotes a good performance. This performance was supported by substantial loan growth– which supported interest income growth despite record low fixed-income yields–, a realignment of currency (19.5% realignment/depreciation on CBN official rate to N379.00/USD), trading revenue, and tight cost efficiency (9M-20: 64.0%; FY-19: 65.9%). All of these supported a generally stable financial performance, as gross earnings expanded by 0.1% y/y, while PBT declined by 6.1% y/y. That being said, our outlook is cautious. Firstly, the macroeconomic outlook for the country, while relatively positive after the damage of 2020, remains fraught with headwinds, which will leave the market risk above average. Hence, measurable intermediation, while maintaining strong asset quality, will be an arduous task. Secondly, rates on fixed-income securities are expected to remain low through H1-21. This will pressure interest margins (NIMs) and create strong headwinds to funded income growth. Finally, the confluence of the factors stated, as well as a lack of meaningful revision to the application of regulator rules, will force banks to find new pathways to profitable growth away from the traditional sources of income; early movers will have the advantage. Cement Volume growth in 2021 will be modest due to the lingering impact of the pandemic on government finances and household income. Subdued macro conditions will likely constrain demand for residential properties; hinder private investment in gross fixed capital formation amid legacy challenges in the real estate sector. However, we are slightly optimistic about government capital expenditure (CAPEX) spending, particularly in H1-21. Analysts view is underpinned by our expectation for a sustained low yield environment which would ease deficit financing pressures. The 2021 budget submitted to the National assembly showed that the government plans to spend NGN3.60trn on capital projects, an increase of 45% from the revised capital expenditure for 2020 (N2.49trn).The recent establishment of an infrastructure company by the FGN, which will be funded mainly by the CBN and NSIA, also lends credence to our optimism. “Overall, we forecast volume growth of 5.1% y/y and 2.1% y/y for Dangote Cement and Lafarge, respectively. Accordingly, we expect overall sales volume for our coverage names to grow sales by 4.4% in 2021E compared to our 2020E growth of 13.2%.” Agriculture Going into 2021, we expect Crude Palm Oil (CPO) prices to remain high, especially in the first half of the year, and higher rubber price, especially towards the second half of the year. The World Bank estimates CPO price at USD723.00/mt and rubber at USD1.68/kg. On CPO, the price forecast is primarily hinged on expected tight supply from heavyweights, Indonesia and Malaysia, as labour constraints and ageing palm tree profiles impact fresh fruit bunches (FFB) yields. Also, the effects of the La Nina weather pattern will subdue global supply in the first quarter of 2021, following the disruptive impact on CPO producing countries in Southeast Asia. Furthermore, we expect CPO prices to be supported by increased demand for vegetable oils, due to a tighter supply of soft oils such as soybean and sunflower oils. For rubber, we expect the demand from the health sector, which soared in 2020 to remain sizeable in 2021, thus limiting the effects of reduced uptake from the auto industry as a result of declined global car sales. On the domestic front, we highlight the potential reopening of the land borders in the first quarter of 2021, as a significant headwind for Nigerian CPO planters. The current nonexistence of an anti-smuggling deal with neighbouring West African governments exacerbates the downsides for local manufacturers. For clarity, with the borders reopened, there will be an increased supply of products in the domestic market, which mean higher competition and price erosion for local players. We expect the government’s “pro-agriculture” stance to continue to support the operations for companies in the sector. Brewery Brewery stocks are expected to record better volume growth in 2021FY, mostly due to the low base from 2020FY. However, the ability of brewers to increase prices above inflation remains constrained. Surging inflation and FX illiquidity will also put pressure on input costs and margins. Telecoms Over the medium to long term, the growth of Nigeria’s subs will continue to be underpinned by its attractive demographics as well as structural upsides. From a demographic perspective, Nigeria has a vibrant telecoms market, supported by its estimated 201 million population size and growth rate (c. 3.0% p.a), high urbanisation rate and young population. Furthermore, competition among the leading companies will continue to put intense downward pressure on prices, making telecoms services more affordable. On our near-term view, we project Nigeria’s 2020E and 2021E mobile subs at 209.0 million (+13.3% y/y) and 225.1million (+7.7% y/y), mobile penetration at 101/3% and 106.4%, and data subs at 155.1million (+23.4% y/y) and 172.9million (+11.5%). Beyond that, we forecast mobile subs to grow at a CAGR of 6.8% over 2021-2025E, and data subs to grow at a CAGR of 11.7% over the same period. Amidst intense competition, we expect MTNN to maintain market leadership, with AIRTELAFRI expected to edge out Globacom (not listed) for the second spot. Risks to our outlook include further shocks to, and weakening of, the consumer wallet, which will negatively impact affordability and consumption of telecom services. The recent regulatory developments around SIM registration is also a significant risk to our subscriber growth outlook. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION