Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a public affairs analyst and former governorship aspirant is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he shares his thoughts on latest developments in the polity The leader of the Northern Elder’s Forum (NEF), Professor Ango Abdullahi recently said that the North is ready for restructuring. What is your take on that? To me, the statement by Prof. Ango Abdullahi is a brave and a welcome development. Every right thinking Nigeria would agree to the simple fact that the current political, social and economic structure has failed us and can no longer sustain our current political cleavages, hence his coming out to say the north is ready for restructuring is such a brave statement and welcome development, especially given his position as the leader of the Northern Elders Forum. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The debate about restructuring is a stark reality staring us in the face and trying to shift discussion from it is like postponing the evil days judging from the current social-economic uncertainty which has befallen our nation today. The reality on ground today should be a serious cause for concern to every patriotic Nigerian, hence the continuous clamour for restructuring from every corners of the country. This has gone beyond just one tribe or region. It has become a national agitation because a restructured Nigeria would mean a paradigm shift where every state, zone or region would be able to look inward and explore its competitive advantage with a view of developing a virile, stable and self-sustaining social economic framework for the betterment of their people. On the issue of security, President Buhari failed to honour the summon by the House of Reps to brief them on what he is doing about the rising insecurity crisis in the country? Senator Balogun Charges Youths To Engage In Politics PFN Backs Kukah On State Of Nation, Says He Shouldn’t Be Used As Sacrificial Lamb If indeed the National Assembly lacks the constitutional power to summon the president as interpreted by Malami, that means Nigeria is not practicing a democratic system of government which brought both the President and other elected office holder to office. Which constitution granted Malami and his boss the right not to appear before a National Assembly summon? Especially on matters that affects the people they represents when people’s lives are lost on daily basis? Morally speaking, do they even need to summon anybody that has human feelings before such a person begin to request for appearance and give situation reports to the entire nation? The defence of Malami has no basis because the legislators represent the people and the president is answerable to the people. A country cannot be practicing democracy and her president is not answerable to the elected representative of the people. I strongly believe that by his statement, Malami is telling Nigerians that the government they learnt in secondary school about checks and balances in a democratic state like Nigeria is fake and scam. Malami should tell Nigerians what provision or section of the Constitution bar the National Assembly from inviting a president, or direct us to a ruling of the Supreme Court preventing a president from honouring the invitation of the legislative arm of government. Anyway, Buhari initially accepted the invitation while the Speaker of the House of Representatives and other Aso Rock aides confirmed his appearance Perhaps, can we say the President is ignorant while Gbajabiamila is a liar, and both political leaders are not versed in the workings of a democracy? Malami is surely taking Nigerians for fools. To me, it is not that anything good can come out from the appearance of Buhari at the National Assembly. However, not honouring the call of the legislators, especially after giving an undertaking to the Speaker, should be a good ground to commence impeachment proceedings against the president for disobedience, disrespectful and dishonourable conduct unbecoming of the President of Nigeria. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION