LAGOS  – As the year 2020 draws to an end, it is imperative to re-examine your budget to know how far you have performed financially. Many individuals, at the onset of a New Year are expectant and hopeful that unaccomplished projects or goals for the previous year would be concluded in the New Year, and to ensure they reach their aspirations, set up financial plan. But, before creating a new financial plan or budget, it is very important to take a quick look at your existing budget to discern if you religiously adhered to it or not. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Besides, it will aid you to know if actually you are able to have a grip of your money by tracking and managing your expenses. If in the course of going through your list of operating cost and you observe that you have surpassed your budget for the year 2020 even though it has few days to roll by, there is need to re-strategise for the new coming year by creating a practical budget that you are sure of sticking to. More so, it will help you to be in charge of your finances. Before Spending Fortunes On Christmas, Think Twice Mistakes To Avoid When Paying Off Debts That is why it is important to start the New Year on proper financial foot by evaluating your previous budget, and creating a more reasonable one that will keep you on track to achieve your financial goals. Do you know that the beginning of the year is the perfect occasion to implement a new budget plan that would suit your current standard of living and to surmount all financial challenges that come your way? However, here are some steps to create your best budget and start off 2021 with financial assurance. State Your Income You need to look over the past year’s bank statements to evaluate your total gross income from all your revenue streams as this will enable you to know how your money is being spent. Also, take a few minutes to ponder through anything that may have changed your income this year such as getting a raise or switching jobs. Be sure to also include income from any part-time positions or side jobs in this step as well. Reassess Your Expenses Write down all your reoccurring monthly financial obligations with their amounts such as rent, car expenses and other miscellaneous. Then, move on to more fluid expenses like food, entertainment, utilities and gas. Include insurance, dental bills, haircuts and shopping on this list as well. Now look at this list and consider getting rid of what you do not need. Cutting out these expenses will help you save a little extra for the long term. Be Specific About Your Goals Be as specific as possible about your financial goals for the New Year. Do you want to set aside money for a vacation? Save for a new home purchase? Create an emergency fund? Or maybe you have goals that relate to spending less, dining out less, buying fewer luxuries, etc. Write down a list of your top five goals that will make you feel more confident about your financial situation by this time next year. Be definite with the amount of income expected and also how to disburse such and set a deadline of when you expect to reach your goal as it is much easier to save if you have these specifics in mind. Determine The Difference Subtract your monthly gross income from your monthly expenses to know how to adjust your budget if need be and also it would help you to know if your expenses are more than your take home or earnings. Keep in mind that it is never too late to change bad habits and instead of focusing on what you have done wrong, focus on what you can do to improve your finances. Create Your Realistic Budget Now that you have put down or know where your money is coming from, where it is going and what you need to do to improve on your spending and savings habits, you are ready to put together your budget. However, if you need to alter your expenses, figure out what you can afford to remove or lower in order to reach your financial goals and you may even reflect on finding ways to increase your income like a part-time job or hobby you can use to make money. Write out a realistic budget next to your current spending habits so that you are able to easily see the changes you need to make and hold yourself accountable by setting a resolution with completion dates. Review Your Financial Planning No matter how good your budget looks on paper, it is insignificant unless executed on a consistent basis. Rather than giving up completely when an unexpected expenses throws off your budget, make sure you have set at least an hour aside each month to review and revise your plan in case of any surprise expenses. Also, during this time, you will want to plan out how you will get used to your budget based on the circumstances while still being consistent with your savings. Prepare Debt Pay-off Strategy If one of your financial goals for the year is to get a better grip on debt, put together a debt payoff approach that complements your budget. Still, you need to choose a debt payoff amount that will help you get ahead financially by the end of the year but also one that will not overstretch you financially. Be realistic about how much you can set aside to pay down your debt this year and include those amounts in the expenses column of your budget. Computerise Savings Contributions Automate your savings contributions each month such that a fixed amount of your monthly income goes directly to your savings as this will make it easier to stay on track with your savings goals. If your bank offers the option to separate your savings account into several categories, you can designate each account for a specific goal such as a vacation fund, emergency fund and even car repairs. Separating your savings accounts this way can make it easier to see how close you are to your goal each month. Stay at the top in year 2021 as you review your past budgets. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION