ADO-EKITI- President Muhammadu Buhari has again been admonished to redouble his efforts in confronting the worsening security situation in the country. Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress(APC) and member of the House of Representatives from Ekiti State, Hon. Wumi Ogunlola gave this admonition during the  2020 Edition of  her annual Empowerment Programme. The federal lawmaker also urged Mr. President to do the needful by rejiggling the security apparatus and make necessary amends. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! At the ceremony  held In Ijero-Ekiti, no fewer than 500 members of her constituency benefitted from the various facilities donated by the legislator. Some items donated included a 3-bedroom  building to a 80-year  widow, Mrs. Omowe Olaleye, 11 Sienna vehicles , 58 sowing machines, 56 motorbikes, 100 generating sets, 40 wheel chairs,  100 grinding machines. COVID-19: Lagos To Inaugurate 10 Oxygen Centres Tinubu Condoles With Kwankwaso Over Dad’s Death The lawmaker also donated cash gifts to hundreds of  students and widows in the as well as people living with disabilities. Another highlight of the occasion  was the presentation of a three -bec room apartment  to one of her strong supporters and octogenarian, Mrs Omowe Olaleye  in Ijero. Ogunlola said she  decided to donate the house and others  to rescue the people from poverty. At a well attended event by party leaders of  the State and the senatorial district, Mrs. Ogunlola posited that no amount social intervention  would make meaningful impact on the lives of the people if the security issues are not addressed. She said: “Security is the foremost agitation of all Nigerians now. If you look at the ways banditry, kidnapping and insurgency  are thriving, we can only hope that government will do the needful. “Security is very paramount to any government  apart from the social welfare. We are hoping that we will get it right. The House had advised  the president  to look at the handlers of our security apparatuses and make the right changes.” “I am  also of the humble opinion that the security Chiefs have outlived their usefulness, they are supposed to be in retirement at  homes now, but still being kept.” “If you keep on doing certain thing the same way, you will be getting the same result. The FG must look critically at this sector and do what is right.” “The House of Representatives  has the right to summon president. If the AGF said we don’t have such powers, he was only being clever by half.” “The president is accountable to Nigerians, we can call him to explain to Nigerians about any issue. For him (Malami)  to say we have now power to invite the President, I perceived that as a figment of his own imagination and not the position of government.” The State Chairman of the party, Hon. Paul Omotoso, said the lawmakers  has not disappointed her constituents by the quantum of what she has donated, describing her as a worthy ambassador of the populace. “We are happy that she has not  disappointed us. The votes we gave to her were not waste . She has done well within this limited time. Whoever that remembers the voters has shown the fear of God and she deserves commendations.” Also speaking, the Southwest Publicity Secretary of APC, Karounwi Oladapo described Ogunola as a pride to womanhood. He acknowledged the impact made on the lives of the people  in Ekiti by the lawmaker within the shortest period as a clear testimony to her competence. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION