…Launches  First University Registry Manual In the past few days, it has been a season of honours and accolades for the person and administration of Prof. Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun SAN, NPOM, the outgoing Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU). EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! On Tuesday, December 22, 2020, the university, via the Centre for Information Press and Public Relations (CIPPR), held its 4th annual Media Parley and Awards wherein the Education Writers’ Association presented the outgoing Vice-Chancellor with a present in recognition of his lofty turnaround service in his five-year tenure at the helm of the academic and administrative affairs of the university. Christmas: Nasarawa Speaker Calls For Prayers Over Insecurity Those Who Hate Buhari For No Reason Will Become Gentle By Force – Femi Adesina The professor of Environmental Law was full of appreciation for the media whom he described as partners in progress without whom all the achievements being talked about and which had helped LASU to its present local and global rankings would not have been possible. This is without prejudice to the faculties, departments, units, unions and associations that had earlier done the VC some honours in their various ways as parting gifts in appreciation of his meritorious service to the university community and by extension, to humanity Still in the bright season of celebrations at the Second Best University in Nigeria – Lagos State University, after five years of hard work, committed effort and an unprecedented record of achievements, the Registry of the University under the able and dynamic leadership of Mr. Mohammed Olayinka Amuni, Esq., rose on Wednesday, 23rd December 2020, to honour the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. ‘Lanre Fagbohun, SAN, NPOM. The brief ceremony was held at the University Senate Chamber, Babatunde Raji Fashola Senate Building, Main Campus, Ojo. The university Registry equally used the occasion to launch arguably the first University Registry Manual – a book that was produced to provide a guide for the official proceedings in the Registry Department of the prestigious University. In his opening remarks, the Registrar, Mohammed Olayinka Amuni, Esq., averred that in the last five (5) years, the 8th substantive Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, SAN, NPOM, gave the Registry the voice, confidence and needed relevance in the current University Administration, adding that the Vice Chancellor robustly assisted the Registry to deepen professionalism by granting necessary approval for members of staff to attend trainings, workshops and conferences both locally and internationally. The Registrar added that the Distinguished Professor of Environmental Law equally approved in – house trainings/workshops for members of the Registry Department. He said promotion of deserving members of the Registry were also accorded priority during his reign as Vice Chancellor, and prominent attention was given to the provision of infrastructural facilities. At the session for the unveiling of the Manual for the University Registry, Deputy Registrar, Non – Academic Staff Establishment, Mr. R.M Mustapha stated categorically that the manual was in two parts. According to Mr. Mustapha, the first part talked explicitly on Quality Assurance, Rules and Regulations, while the second part, discussed the Ethical Issues guiding the Profession. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. ‘Lanre Fagbohun performed the unveiling with the message of admonition “…we urge the Registry to continue to push the frontier of excellence and on behalf of the management, we wish the members of the Registry more successes.” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION