Minna- President Muhammadu Buhari has been called upon to come to the aid of Niger state as armed bandits have maintained its encroachment into parts of the state; killing, maiming their victims and carting away their properties. While Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello has made efforts to curtail the advancements of the armed bandits and kidnappers and other forms of crimes across the state, such efforts fall short of expectations hence citizens now live in fear of the unknown. Former Publicity Secretary of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Niger state, Comrade Jonathan Vatsa in a statement in Minna expressed regrets that the state is at the claws of criminally minded elements security including armed bandits and kidnapping and the Governor is unable to check the trend. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Vatsa said, “Today Niger state is facing lots of security issues; armed bandits, kidnappers and abducting and all of that and it appears that the situation is above what the state and the Governor cannot do anything because he cannot control the security”. “Armed bandits have continued their advancement into parts of the state unleashing terror to armless citizens especially in; Rafi, Bosso, Paikoro, Munya and Shiroro local government areas. They kill some persons, abducted several others and rendering thousands homeless as well”. PDP To APC: Rein In Your Bandits Now, Nigerians Can’t Cope With Daily Kidnapping, Killings 2020: Gbajabiamila Hails Reps’ Sacrifices, As House Adjourns Plenary To January 26 Jonathan Vatsa who was also the Commissioner of Information, Culture and Tourism however warned that with the rate of advancement of criminal elements, “If nothing is done now, the killings are likely going to increase and more people will also be homeless”. The approach to security issues should be checked else Nigeria stands to lose, adding that, “If the people who voted for President Muhammadu Buhari from Niger are killed, who will vote for the APC come 2023? The former Commissioner who is passionately appealing to President Buhari to do something and urgently too as criminal elements are taking over Niger state said security of lives and properties should be paramount to any government. Vatsa is also appealing to members of the Boys Brigade Nigeria to reschedule its annual Drumline Competition, pointing out that postponing the event in the wake the Second wave of corona virus is the best security measure as the security of participants cannot be guaranteed. “We cannot meet up with the COVID 19 protocol: we are postponing it till 2021. I advise us to always observe the safety protocols because the second wave is more deadly and we cannot point to any index or suspected case. Everyone is a suspect because we have all mingled together.” The former Commissioner who is now the Coordinator, (Public Affairs) to Governor Sani Bello is also calling on the state government to ensure strict enforcement of the use of face masks compulsory as it is one of the surest ways to reduce the spread of the virus. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION