The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has  urged Nigerians to duly observe  COVID-19 protocols  in line with the directives of the Presidential Task Force (PTF). Boboye said this in a statement issued in Abuja by the Corps Public Education Officer Bisi Kazeem to commemorate Christmas. Oyeyemi said it was necessary to enjoin Nigerian Christians to observe the coronavirus protocols  as they joined their counterparts from across the world to celebrate amid COVID-19 pandemic. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He reiterated his earlier calls for people to guide against unhealthy habits that could compromise the guidelines put in place by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to avert the spread of the disease. He expressed gratitude to the Almighty God for protecting Nigerians against various social and security challenges. Police Arraign Load Carrier, One Other Over Alleged Theft Of Cooking Items Soldiers kill Three Armed Robbers In Plateau He added that the period of Christmas should be devoted to giving glory to God for His favours and asking Him for more, instead of laying emphasis on merriments alone. He urged people to pray fervently for God’s more grace to the country and protection for all Nigerians. The FRSC boss particularly cautioned travelers against dangers of  road travels at this period of increased human and vehicular traffic, stressing that people must be  extra vigilant while using the road. “Celebrate peacefully with your family at home if possible. But if you must travel to other places, then try as much as possible to observe all the COVID-19 protocols, including frequent washing of hands, wearing of  face masks and keeping to social distancing,” he said. Oyeyemi further urged  road users to support the ongoing road safety sensitisation programmes by the FRSC to address issues of poor attitude to road usage by people. He added that such non committal attitude to road safety accounted for why the periods of Christmas and new year became the most challenging to the campaigns for safer road environments in the country. He further noted that FRSC, as part of its annual end of year special patrol,  had put adequate measures in place and mapped out strategies to address all the anticipated traffic challenges that could hinder free movement of people and vehicles. “Such measures will  remain inadequate without cooperation from the public, particularly those that travel on the roads, ” he said. Oyeyemi warned people against some specific offences such as route violation, overloading, speeding, light signs violation, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs which have been identified as responsible for most crashes and deaths that occurred during the yuletide. “People must prove through their obedience to traffic rules and regulations that Christmas and new year can be celebrated without loss of lives, road obstruction and gridlocks that characterise the periods.” “All road travelers must observe these basic traffic rules to ensure the desired safety outcomes, not only during the Christmas and new year celebrations, but beyond the seasons,” he added. The FRSC boss appealed to Nigerians to cooperate fully with the FRSC personnel and other security agencies as well as stakeholders in the civil societies who voluntarily joined in keeping the roads safer in the spirits of road safety as a shared responsibility. “Adequate patrol and rescue logistics as well as personnel have been deployed along all black spots and major highways across the country to ease movement of travelers and render prompt medical care in case of crashes related and other emergencies.” “The public are accordingly enjoined to cooperate with the corps to make the special exercise a huge success,” he said. Oyeyemi further appealed to Nigerians to report any cases of obstruction, crashes and other emergencies to the FRSC toll free line 122. He added that the public could directly call to the studios of the FRSC National Traffic Radio-107.1 FM through 08052998090 or 09067000015 for prompt response to  distress calls on all parts of roads across the country. “I hereby wish all Nigerians happy Christmas and safe celebration,” he added. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION