Comrade Chris Okonkwo, the president of the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC), in this discussion with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on the nagging issues confronting the sector and what could be done to bail it out of the doldrums. Excerpts: Ahead of the commencement of the mass metering Initiative, the Federal Government recently warned electricity companies or their representatives in the country not to sell the planned meters to be rolled out to Nigerians. What is your take on this directive from the government? As agreed, the committee that has both the NLC and TUC represented would address issues raised by the consumers and ensure that issues on electricity tariff are resolved without breakdown of peace. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Besides, let me in this parley state that when meters that should be given for free are sold, there is nothing that should be done other than to resort to what was clearly stated that meters should be provided at no cost to Nigerians. Even for meters that have been paid for, there is a directive from regulators to DISCOs that they need to find a way to reimburse these citizens. Jobberman Trains Northern Youths On Skills Needed To Survive Job Market EDTP: NDE, CBN Train Another 140 In Benue On NIRSAL Can you throw light on other personalities that constitute the membership of the Committee? Yes, other members of technical committee is as follows: Mr Festus Keyamo(SAN), Minister of State Labour and Employment, Chairman; Mr Godwin Jedy-Agba, Minister of State Power, and Prof. James Momoh, Chairman, National Electricity Regulatory. The Federal Government recently commissioned a brand new 2x60MVA, 132/33kV transmission substation in Gagarawa Local Government Area of Jigawa State. Again, the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman also commissioned a newly installed 150MVA 132/33kV power transformer at Kumbotso Transmission Substation in Kano. Besides, there are others waiting to be commissioned in other parts of the country. In your assessment, do you see a silver lining in respect of the development? Yes, of course. There is a silver lining that is inherent in the development, particularly as the government has assured that it is working round the clock to improve the electricity voltage and deliver uninterrupted power supply to Nigerians across the country. Without much emphasis on the importance of electricity both to Nigeria as a nation and to Nigerians, access to modern energy is assumed to be a precondition for poverty alleviation, sustainable development and the attainment of the millennium development targets. Energy is the indispensable force driving all economics activities. In fact, the positive multiplier effect that is inherent in constant power supply cannot be overemphasized. Let me stress that the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman while commissioned the project, expressed his delight at the completion of the substation, describing it as yet another demonstration of the commitment of the Muhammadu Buhari Administration to reposition the energy sector for maximum performance. According to him, the new substation would upgrade power supply to the Jigawa industrial hub and stimulate economic activities in the area, thereby increasing revenue generation in Jigawa State and its environs while boosting electricity supply to the several local government areas within the state. Again, let me add that power generation capacity was recently increased by 60 megawatts with the launch of the Dadin Kowa Hydropower Plant, in Gombe State. This takes the number of hydropower plants generating electricity in the country to four. Nigeria generates its electricity mainly from gas-powered plants, its hydropower plants are responsible for 30 percent of its overall power output. The country’s other hydropower plants include; Kainji, Jebba and Shiroro. For instance, its power generation stood at 4,482.55MW as of 6am on Sunday, December 13, 2020 down from 4,658.90MW on Saturday, December 12, 2020. Gas constraints and a fall in demand by Discos left 1,915.8MW unused as of 6am on Sunday. Was there negative impact from the prevalence of COVID-19 on the sector, if so, how is it like? The impact is actually been felt at the demand-side of the service chain. Beyond its impact on the health of Nigerians, COVID-19 has caused severe demand-side disruptions in the power sector in more ways than could have been anticipated. Due to the lockdown measures introduced by the government to curtail the spread of the virus, several businesses have either shut down entirely (especially those business operations that can only be performed within the office premises/non-residential buildings) or reduced operations, thus, significantly reducing the net electricity consumed by these commercial entities. Given that commercial and industrial customers pay a higher tariff per kilowatt-hour of energy consumed, the shutdown of these businesses has created financial losses for the Electricity Distribution Companies (‘DisCos’) and may worsen their already precarious financial situation. It is expected that the power that should have been used by these businesses would be diverted to residential customers given that their consumption would have increased due to the stay at home order by the government. However, the tariff payable by residential customers is less than that payable by these businesses. Consequently, the expectation is that DisCos would receive less revenue for the same amount of power distributed during the lockdown. In times like this, employees, especially in the most vulnerable sectors earlier highlighted, need to start looking at options for alternative sources of income in the likely event that layoffs continue. What do you think is the way forward, particularly from the perspective of employers? As you already known, most employers are already in distress as a result of the negative exerted on them by the pandemic. For most of them, the priority has been on survival, and all policies and actions taken, in some cases has been geared towards the pruning down of staff strength. It is a huge challenge as not every employee would let go as they would be compelled to resort to seek redress in court. With this, employers should not only be cautious, but must be adequately covered to avoid any litigation or additional business risks in the future. Even the reputational damage could be hard to recover from. For the government, given the situation with oil prices, cash is indeed tight. However, in times like this, government intervention remains very key in the short and long term, not only in terms of survival, but also to be able to emerge from the crisis with strength. The government has plans to reduce its costs of operation to a minimum and tap into loans and grants from the international community. As the International Labour Organisation, (ILO) has noted, without appropriate policy measures, workers face a high risk of falling into poverty. What is the union doing to change the face of power sector in Nigeria? We are in the vanguard of the reform, change we are talking about .I have granted interviews, engaged those who thought they know a lot at the highest level and I came out with the success of the fact that they were wrong. I hope they will now take a step in the right direction. We cannot say as labour, we will now threaten to shut down installation because he doesn’t have enough. What we have is fragile and shutting it down will worsen the power situation and allows people to tag us enemies of the power sector growth. We are doing more of advocacy, engagement and debate with the National Assembly, presidency and Ministry of Power to move the power sector forward We are not lacking in that capacity because some of them would rather avoid our debate because they know if they are looking for the truth they will get it and because they don’t want the truth they avoid our union. We will not allow them to run away, we will follow them. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION