LAGOS  – The growth of external debt stock and debt service payments is becoming a clog in the wheel of national economic growth efforts, analysts in the nation’s Organised Private Sector (OPS) have warned The financial analysts also warned that recent suspension period for the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) scheduled to end on December 31, 2020, which has been extended through June 2021 is not in the interest of Nigeria. According to the Analysts, “borrowing to finance recurrent expenditures does not portray managers of the economy in the right light, and this could spell doom for the country.” EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It would be recalled that the suspension period for the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) scheduled to end on December 31, 2020 has been extended through June 2021 due to the ravaging Coronavirus pandemic, as contained on the website of the World Bank. DSSI was established on May 1, 2020 by G20 countries on the advice of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and has delivered about $5 billion in relief to more than 40 eligible countries. Bank Credit Grew By N290bn In Six Weeks As Lending Rates Drop – CBN Uzodimma Ready To Provide Counterpart Funds For Development Partners The initiative is intended to help countries concentrate their resources on fighting the pandemic and safe guarding the lives and livelihoods of millions of the most vulnerable people all over the world. Not fewer than 73 countries are eligible for the temporary suspension of debt-service payments owed their official bilateral creditors. The G20 has also called on all private creditors to participate in the initiative on comparable terms. Both the World Bank and the IMF are strongly supporting the implementation of the DSSI – by monitoring spending, enhancing public debt transparency, and ensuring prudent borrowing. All the DSSI borrowers are committed to using all their freed-up funds towards increasing their social, health, or economic spending in response to the crisis, including disclosing all their public-sector related financial commitments (involving debt and debt-like instruments), as well as limiting their non-concessional borrowings to levels agreed under IMF programmes and the World Bank’s non-concessional borrowing policies. Since the onset of the pandemic, many emerging markets are at significant risk of debt distress and a number of countries all over the world have announced their intention to seek debt restructurings. Dr. Timothy Olawale, the Director-General of the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT on the high debt profile of Nigeria, called on the government to initiative policies that would curtail rising debt accumulation. He said: “Our analysis of debt servicing provisions to revenue projections in the yearly budget over a five-year period revealed that in 2016, 38.34% of the year’s budget was earmarked for debt servicing. Similarly in 2017 (36.2%); 2018 (30.7%); 2019 (32.14%); and 2020 (35.6%). This is not only worrisome but alarming. “We believe that the growth of external debt stock and debt service payments is becoming a clog in the wheel of national economic growth efforts. Once an initial stock of debt grows to certain threshold, servicing them becomes a burden with debt crowding out investment and growth. “It is obvious that, if the growing trend is unabated, Nigeria could face the gory experience of Greece (Euro-zone crisis of 2015). The country failed to pay the sum of 1.5Billion Euros to the International Monetary Fund when it was due. “The long-running debt debacle left Greece on the brink of financial collapse, worsening recent years of wrenching austerity, and represented a historic blow to Europe to irreversibility of the 16-year old single currency. “Some of the drivers that exacerbated the problem of Greece were budget and trade deficits. Both trade and budget deficit grew from below five per cent of Gross Domestic Product by 1999 to about 15 per cent of GDP by 2009, which compounded Greece’s economic challenges. “We strongly believe that borrowing to finance recurrent expenditures does not portray managers of the economy in the right light, and this could spell doom for the country. Public debts should be tied exclusively to capital projects with feasible income and debt repayment potential. “By the revised Budget 2020, debt servicing alone is about N3.0 trillion, which is 27% of the total expenditure and 35.6% of the Revenue. With all the borrowings, there seems to be insignificant impact in some economic objectives as there is still widespread unemployment, high poverty levels, poor infrastructural development and poor health indicators. “In the quest to reduce the rising debt profile, we suggest that the Federal Government should sell-off or concession its assets that are lying fallow and moribund, proceeds from it should be channel into financing annual budget deficits. The crowding effect of borrowing locally has its tolls on the private sector and its ability to borrow for productive purposes. Dr. Muda Yusuf, Director General, Lagos Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in a interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said: “The growing National debt is a cause for concern as the debt profile grew from N12.6 trillion in 2015 to N31.01 trillion in June 2020, an increase of 146%. Although, about 15% of these are debts owed by the state governments. According to Dr. Yusuf, the capacity to service the current stock of debt raises serious sustainability concerns. He specifically said: “The opportunity cost of high debt service commitment for the economy and citizens is very high. There is also the exchange rate risk inherent in the exposure to mounting foreign debt which we need to worry about. “As the currency depreciates, the burden of servicing foreign debt would intensify. This is a major problem with increasing the stock of foreign debt. The extension of debt repayment by the World Bank is a welcome development. But, the World Bank component of our foreign debt is quite small in relative terms “All of these underscore the imperative of appropriate policy choices to attract equity domestic and foreign private sector capital for economic and social infrastructure financing. He, however, said: “It is imperative to review the spending structure of government and the cost of governance. The ballooning recurrent expenditure, in the face of declining revenue is a cause for concern”. Friday Nathaniel Udoh, Chief Coordinator, South-South, Institute of Chartered Economists of Nigeria, told our correspondent that Nigeria’s biggest economic problem, though – and the issue that requires real political acceptance from Buhari’s government – is the country’s growing public debt. He pointed out that while the country’s debt as a proportion to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is a reasonable twenty percent, debt servicing costs make up fully two-thirds of retained government revenue, a startlingly high figure and a datum its government goes some lengths to de-emphasise. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION