LAGOS – The Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Abubakar has disclosed why President Muhammadu Buhari gave the approval for the establishment of 10 additional National Parks in the country. With the new approval, the total number of national parks across the country stands at 17. Addressing journalists in Abuja, the Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Abubakar also disclosed that to give credence and legal backing to the establishment, an executive bill will soon be presented to the National Assembly for necessary action. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The Minister revealed that the ten National Parks include Allawa Game Reserve, Apoi Forest Reserve, Edumenum Forest Reserve, Falgore Game Reserve, Hadeja Wetland Game Reserve, Kampe Forest Reserve, Kogo Forest Reserve, Marhai Forest Reserve, Oba Hill Forest Reserve and Pandam Forest Reserve. He said the creation of additional National Parks in Nigeria has become imperative in view of the prevailing effects of climate change across the globe. NCAC Boss Canvasses Faster COVID-19 Testing, Certification To Grow Tourism In 2021 COVID-19: Cross River Suspends 2020 Carnival Calabar, Shuts Down Nightclubs “This action is geared towards the United Nation’s policy of placing 25% of its member countries’ landmass under permanent vegetation cover for carbon sequestration to mitigate the effects of climate change and ameliorate other ecological challenges. “It may interest you to note that Nigeria currently has 6.7% of her total landmass under vegetation cover which is grossly inadequate in line with global best practices. “The creation of these Parks will no doubt, further create more employment opportunities, alleviate poverty in rural areas and ultimately enhance the country’s revenue profile especially now that Nigeria is seeking to diversify her economy,” he explained. Abubakar who revealed that the 17 National Parks cut across the ecological zones of the country except for the marine eco-system, said the National Parks are areas reserved and managed for conservation of wildlife and natural resources, adding that the parks contain several rich and diverse varieties of rare endangered species like Elephants, Gorillas, Giraffes, Monkeys, Golden Cats, Hippopotami, crocodiles, among other animals and a host of plant species. The Minister while stating that the functions of the National Park Service involve surveillance, patrolling, checking illegal activities of poachers in the Parks, enforcement of relevant international treaties and conventions to which Nigeria is a signatory, public enlightenment on the protection and conservation of plants and animals, assisting researchers and searching, arresting and prosecuting offenders, lamented that: “It is also regrettable that most state-owned forest reserves today have become dens of criminal activities. “In a bid to further add impetus to the current fight against insurgency as well as other organised crimes such as kidnapping, cattle rustling, banditry amongst others, the creation of these National Parks will provide the much-needed apparatus to ward off criminal elements living or looking for hideouts in those areas,” he stressed. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION