The Ekiti State Judicial Panel of Inquiry on Human Rights Violations has acknowledged oral and documentary evidences tendered by some complainants and therefore recommend compensations. The panel at its  resumed sitting  Presided over by the Chairman , Justice Cornileus Akintayo disclosed that properties  of six complainants valued at N1.5million should be paid by the Ekiti State Government. Femi Bamisaye  the Panel’s Media Adviser in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti  hinted that money would be used in replacing the damaged properties of the complainants. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Justice  Akintayo (rtd)  Panelwho read out the recommendations stated that from the oral and documentary evidences of the complainants produced through exhibits tendered as well as  visits to the locus ,the panel was able to establish the facts on each case and thus made appropriate recommendations In the case of Inspector Omokhua Benjamin vs Unknown persons, the  complainant in his evidence said that on 20th Oct,2020,  he was on duty during the ENDSARS protest at the police station at Afao, Ikere-Ekiti when  some youths numbering about 200 shouting ENDSARS slogans  attacked the  Police Station , burnt down the police  station alongside  his Golf 3 car valued at about N1.4 million. Nursing Mother, 3 Others Killed In Separate Accidents In Delta Female PoS Operator Disarms 2 Armed Robbery Suspects In Edo He explained further that the hoodlums also  stormed the police official quarters  where he also lost his personal belongings in the mayhem In it’s ruling on the matter,   the panel recommended  N400,000.00 as compensation for  Omokhua’s  Golf 3 car and N50,000.00 for the  personal properties destroyed at  the Afao police station official quarters, Ikere Ekiti. However, the panel recommended that Omokhua should obtain a valid vehicle particulars as a condition precedence to his collecting the money and was berated  for using the vehicle for seven years without valid vehicle particulars. The panel also  recommended a compensation of N400,000 for Inspector Yakubu Aminu in the case of Inspector Yakubu Aminu  vs unknown Persons . The panel explained that the recomeded N400,000 compensation  was for  Aminu’s  Golf 3 car with registration Number AG828KER  which was burnt by the EndSARS protesters within the premises of Afao Police Station, Ikere Ekiti, on 20th,Oct,2020. In his evidence before the panel, Inspector Yakubu stated that he bought the vehicle for the sum of N550,000 and wanted the Government to pay 1.3million to replace the car. After accessing the cost of the vehicle, the panel recommended a  sum of N400,000 as compensation for the Police Inspector However, the panel recommended that Inspector Yakubu shall obtain valid particulars of the vehicle as condition precedence to collecting the recommended  amount . In the case of Olawale Adekola who said he  is a Press Officer attached to the Ministry of Justice the panel  recommended a compensation  of  N142,850 for the cost of speed light N75,000, repair of his camera N30,000 and cost if his medical treatment at N37,850. Olawale had  alleged in his evidence before the panel that  he was stoned, robbed and humiliated at the House of Assembly Complex on the 16th Oct,2020 by a group of angry mob during the ENDSARS protests. Adekola during the presentation of his evidence, started that two camera lens valued at  N690,000 and  a photographic light costing  N75,000 were stolen by the mob while he spent a sum of  N57,850 on his  medical  treatment and a sum of N30,000 on the   the repair of the camera . He said he wanted the Government to assist him get the items back as  the items were not insured. Olawale  requested for   N833,350 noting that the damaged camera was owned by Ekiti State Government. However the panel ruled  that the complainant is not entitled to the cost of the 85mm Canon Camera  put at N200, 000, and the cost of 70-30mm Canon camera put at N490,000 because both items are properties of Ekiti State, even though the complainant got the purchased receipt in his own name from his own admission. In the case of Inspector Alabi Samuel and unknown persons ,the panel  recommended that the complainant be  compensated with a sum of N170,000, for his stolen motorcycle put at N100,000 and other properties put at N70,000. In his evidences before the panel, Inspector Alabi complained that youths numbering about a thousand attacked the Afao Police Station Ikere Ekiti where he was living at the staff quarters, during which  his properties  were  burnt while some were  carted away. He testified that his motorcycle Number AKD645QB Lagos valued at N360,000 which was parked at the premises was stolen, with mattresses, standing fan, pressing iron, personal clothes, shoes and three police uniforms. He also alleged that some documents including Police signals and receipts were also burnt. The panel having considered the fact before it recommended the payment of a sum of N170,000 as compensation to the complainant, Inspector Alabi. Ayeni Micheal ojo Vs unknown persons was recommended to be paid N242,500 as compensation, to carry out repairs on his vandalized car Nissan Primera with Registration Number LAW154AE. Michael Ojo during oral evidence requested for N5million Naira to be able to repair his vehicle vandalized on 20-10-2020 on his way  to his house at Afao, Kajola, Ikere Ekiti by the hoodlum during the ENDSARS protest. Michael, a commercial driver in his evidence, explained that after dropping his passengers at Ise Junction, parked beside St. John Primary School and then ran out of the vehicle when he met the ENDSARS protesters where the hoodlums blocked his way. He said that by the time he came back to the scene , the front and back  wheelscreens of the vehicle, the boot as well as  all the trafficator lights were all damaged. He prayed the panel to help put back the car on the road after tendering the pictures of the damaged car which was admitted as exhibit A, and the vehicle particulars was admitted as exhibit B to B7, saying he has lost a paid job since April 2020. The panel after considering the content of the complaint, the oral and documentary evidence concluded that hoodlums vandalized the vehicle and thereby assessed the cost of repairing and recommended N242,500. as compensation to repair the vehicle and lost of earnings, The panel however recommended that current particulars of the vehicle should be made a condition precedence for the payment of the recommended amount, noting that the complainant was driving the vehicle for four years without valid and current vehicle particulars. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION