ASABA  – Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has signed the 2021 budget of N346.2 billion tagged “Budget of Wealth Creation” into law, just as he promised to provide funds for Imo State development partners who need counterpart funding to function and with a view to put the state’s economy on a speed lane. Putting the official seal on the 2021 appropriation bill as passed by the House of Assembly, the Governor informed that the Executive presented an estimate that was “a realistic thinking of what will drive Imo State to the next level, if fully implemented.” The Governor reiterated the tag of the budget which is “Budget of Wealth Creation” and emphasised that if well implemented will address the unemployment problems in the State, provide infrastructure, provide counterpart funding to the State’s global partners and bridge the gaps that exist to both the State local economy and other economies. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He noted that the Executive Arm of government has the responsibility to “drive the appropriated revenue, generate the revenue through her MDAs, spend the revenue as appropriated and ensure that the performance profile of the budget as passed into law is reasonable and such that will impact on the lives of the State and her citizenry.” He thanked the leadership and members of the Imo State House of Assembly for their prompt and timely passage of the appropriation bill which, saying it is a reflection of a strong and cordial partnership between the Executive Arm and the Legislature. China To Overtake United States As World’s Biggest Economy In 2028 Woman Escapes Mob Action Over False Claim Of Missing Money In Onitsha Presenting the Budget for the Governor’s assent the Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Emeziem said they have “done justice to the appropriation bill,” saying the budget passed through the due process of First, Second and Third reading. In a related development, Governor Uzodimma, who emphasised not to owe Imo workers their salaries, salaries, said workers and pensioners in the state or local government civil service will be paid their salaries, pensions or entitlements as at when due in the cause of his administration as governor. He disclosed that he has a covenant with God to sincerely serve the people of Imo State and that he will be committed to the promise throughout his tenure. Governor Uzodimma reiterated this during his first Christmas Day Mass at his home Church, Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Omuma, in Oru East local government area of the state He recalled the events that brought him into politics, the contest for governorship of Imo State and the reclaiming of his mandate at the Supreme Court, noting that “the people of Omuma have many reasons to be grateful to God for making one of their own governor of the state.” Governor Uzodimma said his desire to govern Imo was predicated on “the will of God”, insisting that he has never ventured into anything without first seeking God’s direction, the reason he was able to overcome the challenges he encountered on assumption of office on January 15, 2020. The Governor disclosed that contrary to popular perception, he discovered that the problem of Imo State is more with the Civil Service system than the politicians, regretting that massive corruption was the order of the day in the Imo State Civil Service when he assumed office. He said though his predecessor, Emeka Ihedioha’s administration, noticed the anomalies plaguing the system and tried to do some verification, their efforts yielded little results then until his administration came on board and embarked on full automation of the payment system of the state. Governor Uzodimma said that relying on the automation, 43,000 workers and 21,000 pensioners in Imo State had been paid their salaries and pensions up to date. He maintained that those who have not been paid are those who have issues with accurate bio-data or those receiving double salaries or pensions and therefore queried by the automation system. He challenged those claiming to be owed to approach the data centre with their pension identification number and relevant details so that their status will be revealed and payment effected if they do not have issues. The governor also promised to publish in the newspapers by January 2, 2020, details of all Imo workers and pensioners who have passed the automation process and have been receiving their entitlements till date so that those still in doubt will know how serious the government is with the automation. He maintained that he has come for the good of Imo people irrespective of party affiliation, pointing out that though he is the Governor of an APC-led government, he presides over the affairs of all Imo citizens regardless of party leaning. He, therefore, called on Imo citizens to pray for the state and assured that there is light on the horizon and better days ahead for the state. Earlier in his sermon, the Parish priest of Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Omuma, Rev. Fr. Ernest Chike Dike noted that Christmas is a season of celebration of the Light of God sent unto a people living in darkness through Jesus Christ his son. “Light had come into the world that hitherto has been in darkness. When you invite Jesus the darkness in your life will disappear,” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION