LAGOS  – The Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) has appealed to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to make Bureaux De Change (BDCs) payout agents for Diaspora remittances. Alhaji (Dr) Aminu Gwadabe, ABCON President, who disclosed this to financial journalists in Lagos said the apex bank should leverage on the over 5,000 licensed BDCs across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria to get the greenback seamlessly to beneficiaries. Gwadabe said that the plan would help in providing a more convenient channel for Nigerians in the Diaspora to remit funds back to the country to boost economic development. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He noted that Diaspora remittance is an important transaction that requires regulation by the country’s monetary authority. In Nigeria, the powers rest with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Over the years, the apex bank issued several policies designed to boost and facilitate unhindered flow of remittances sent home by Nigerians in the Diaspora. Banks’ Customers Endure Dry ATMs, Poor Mobile Banking Platforms At Christmas 2021: Analysts See Increase In Fixed Income Yields, Equity Market Growth Periodically, as need arises, the banking regulator tinkers with Diaspora remittance policies vis-a-vis the policies guiding operations of the International Money Transfer Operators (IMTO). The CBN policies are geared towards having efficient flow of Diaspora fund remittance. Previous attempt at coordinating remittance inflow: Unofficial reports put Nigerians resident abroad at about 16 million. They are residents in the United Kingdom, Italy, Ghana, Spain, Germany, Ireland, United States of America, Canada, Russia among others. Considering the volume of remittances to Nigeria by Nigerians abroad, CBN cannot stand aloof without policy in place to safeguard the remittance inflows. Mr. Godwin Emefiele, CBN Governor, recently gave insight into what was obtained in the past; how remittances from abroad were coordinated at a recent press briefing in Abuja. He said: “In 1996, the first remittance programme by an IMTO was launched in Nigeria. The private arrangement, with limited involvement by the Central Bank of Nigeria, was between an IMTO, Western Union and First Bank of Nigeria, which was then the only Western Union agent. Indeed, I am aware that at that initial stage, Western Union dealt with only First Bank directly, while First Bank of Nigeria, in turn, had other banks as sub-agents. This programme enabled recipients of remittances to receive such funds over the counter in foreign currency, amongst other options. Following the successful launch of this programme, other money transfer organisations launched similar initiatives to provide services to the growing number of Nigerians in the Diaspora who were keen on remitting funds back to Nigeria. According to the ABCON boss, the annual remittance inflow of close to $25 billion is critical to Nigeria’s currency management and stability and should be given seamless flow to the economy. Such funds, he added, would support Nigeria’s balance of payment position, reduce dependence on external borrowing and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on foreign exchange inflows into the country. He said BDCs remain the largest foreign currency operators in Nigeria, hence making them payout agents for Diaspora remittances will protect the market from forex cartels that refuse to follow rules set by the apex bank. He explained that such a move will help in achieving market price equilibrium, give depth to the forex market, boost dollar liquidity in the market, enhance foreign reserves accretion and promote exchange rate stability. Continuing, the ABCON boss said assigning such a role to BDCs will enhance their operational capacity and sustainability while solidifying the defense of the naira against other currencies. According to Gwadabe, the need to bring BDCs into the Diaspora remittances collection business has become exigent following reports of abuse by Mobile Money Operators (MMOs) opposed to paying remittances beneficiaries in dollars as mandated by the CBN. On November 30, 2020 the CBN stated that beneficiaries of Diaspora Remittances through International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs) shall henceforth receive such inflows in foreign currency (US Dollars) through the designated bank of their choice. Gwadabe applauded the CBN’s directive, saying it will put an end to malpractices perpetually making the dollar scarce and keeping the local currency at the mercy of the greenback. He said the CBN directives have helped to usher in a naira rebound to N465/$ in the parallel market and should be upheld. Analyzed data on IMTOs inflows into the country over the past year, and through investigations discovered that some IMTOs, rather than compete on improving transaction volumes and create more efficient ways for Nigerians in the Diaspora to remit funds, resorted to engaging in arbitrage arrangements on the naira-dollar exchange rate, which to a large extent resulted in a significant drop in flows into the country. This encouraged the use of unsafe unofficial channels, which also supported diversion of remittance flows meant for Nigeria, thereby undermining Nigeria’s Foreign Exchange management framework. The CBN had also blamed MMOs for flouting its directives, insisting that despite spelling out procedures “regrettably, a few operators continue to pay remittances in local currency contrary to the regulatory directive”. The regulator therefore, directed all MMOs to immediately disable wallets from receipt of funds from IMTOs while payment service providers are directed to cease integrating their systems with IMTOs going forward and must prevent the coming in of remittances with other legitimate transactions. Gwadabe insists that for Nigeria to get the full value of what is due to her in the remittance market, BDCs have to be included in the remittances payment channels and allowed to receive funds from Nigerians in Diaspora. He listed the importance of migrant remittances to the economy to include serving as a lifeline for the recipient’s small household in the economy and used for health, nutrition, education and societal needs. The remittances are also higher than both Foreign Direct Investment and foreign aids flow to the economy and still, are cheaper sources of funds. CBN Regulation In Focus To increase Diaspora remittance flow and improve the number of channels available to Nigerians abroad to wire their transfer, the apex bank in 2016 launched a licensing regime to guide the conduct and operations of IMTOs. The new policy led to licensing of 65 International Money Transfer Operators. Justifying the need to the expand coast of Diaspora fund remittances, which according to the CBN Governor, Mr. Emefiele was around annual. Emefiele estimate of about $24 billion, a princely amount that could help improve Nigeria’s balance of payment position, reduce its dependence on external borrowing and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on foreign exchange inflows into the country. The apex bank sought to find ways to support improved remittance inflows into the country through official channels. “Based on this premise, we analysed data on IMTO inflows into the country over the past year, and through our investigations discovered that some IMTOs, rather than compete on improving transaction volumes and create more efficient ways for Nigerians in the Diaspora to remit funds, resorted to engaging in arbitrage arrangements on the naira-dollar exchange rate, which to a large extent resulted in a significant drop in flows into the country. It also encouraged the use of unsafe unofficial channels, which also supported diversion of remittance flows meant for Nigeria, thereby undermining our foreign exchange management framework. “As a result, in an effort to boost remittance inflows and foster an environment that would enable faster, cheaper, and more convenient flow of remittances back to Nigeria, the Central Bank of Nigeria, on November 30, 2020, announced a new policy initiative, which would help to support these objectives,” he said. Recent pronouncement by the Central Bank on December 3, 2020 was the master stroke, game changer in the affair of managing Diaspora remittance in Nigeria. Addressing the media in Abuja on the new Diaspora remittance policy direction, CBN governor Mr. Emefiele announced new policy guidelines. Contrary to what was obtainable in the past, beneficiaries of Diaspora remittances through IMTOs shall henceforth receive such inflows in foreign currency (US dollars) through the designated bank of their choice. Recipients have options too. Recipients of remittances have the option of receiving these funds in foreign currency cash (US dollars) or into their ordinary domiciliary account. “These changes are necessary to deepen the foreign exchange market, provide more liquidity, and create more transparency in the administration of Diaspora remittances into Nigeria. In addition, these changes would help finance a future stream of investment opportunities for Nigerians in the Diaspora, while also guaranteeing that recipients of remittances would receive a market-reflective exchange rate for their inflows,” said the CBN Governor. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION