In desperate search for how to get rid of the demon strafing our country, Nigeria, I recently re-read the epic novel by the renowned author, China Achebe, “The Trouble With Nigeria”. Reading through the book the first time, l saw that the conclusion is that the trouble with Nigeria is the leadership. When l read it the second time, l realised that the trouble with Nigeria is not just with the leaders, but the real trouble is with the leadership of Nigeria that fails to live up to the expectations of their country men and women in such a manner that they would be regarded as patriots. In exasperation, you may exclaim, what’s the difference between leaders, leadership and patriots? Same difference, you would conclude. Well, it is not quite as simple as you might have thought or may be thinking. That’s because there is an explanation for blaming the trouble with Nigeria on the leaders and leadership that are not patriots. And that presupposes that it’s only leaders that engender or manifest great leadership that can be identified as patriots. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Here is how Achebe, the master of African story telling put it: “Nigerians are what they are only because their leaders are not what they should be” . He continued. The Office Of The Attorney- General Of The Federation (AGF) Lesson From Travails Of Abaribe And Ndume “A true patriot will always demand the highest standards of his country and accept nothing but the best for and from his people. He will be outspoken in condemnation of their short-coming without giving way to superiority, despair or cynicism. That is my idea of a patriot.” By blaming the leadership for Nigeria’s inability to become what it has potentials to be, Achebe was referring to the absence of patriotic Nigerians in various leadership positions including our roles as parents. So it is not just about the leadership in the presidency, but the leadership that Achebe is referring to would include the legislature, judiciary and even the fourth realm of the estate , the media, civil society, including faith leaders and traditional rulers and as well as parents in our homes. That’s the whole gamut of the leadership of the respective arms of government and the media, civil society as well as the clergy in the church, mosque and traditional rulers who are the custodians of our cultural heritage, including as fathers and mothers. At this juncture, allow me crave your indulgence to play the devil’s advocate by arguing that we are all collectively guilty for allowing some of our actions and inactions perceived as injustice to others fester and drive the less patient ones amongst us into engaging in anti-social behaviors like religious insurgency , terrorism banditry, cultism, kidnapping and ritual killings etc. Owing to space constraints, l will be focusing only on religious insurgency in this essay. While taking cognizance of the wise crack, a fish starts rotting from the head; Nigeria cannot continue to be likened to a fish which has been the most convenient analogy of the trouble with our country. Alternatively, let’s liken our country to a river. And as we are well aware, when a river is polluted from the source or fountain, the pollution finds its way down the entire course of the river as it cascades. And in this instance, our home, where we were born or grew up and the society are the source. Given the scenario described above, it would be obvious that the trouble with Nigeria is not only with our leaders, but also with us the followers as well, simply because the so-called leaders that we often like to blame, emerge from amongst us. In other words , the religious insurgents, terrorists, bandits, cultists , kidnappers and ritualists who are members of society that have gone rogue , also evolved from amongst us the followers. Going by that logic, both the leaders and the outlaws or deviants are the products of the same system-troubled homes and society at large. The difference between the law abiding members of society and most of the radicalized ones is that they are aggrieved and have therefore taken the laws into their hands. But what’s the cause of their grievances, one may wonder? Search no more, because it is most likely a collection or series of misdeeds, let downs, and other insensitive and inequitable actions taken by leaders that have hurt the follower-ship and which the leadership might have failed to recognize and must have not addressed or corrected, more so because they are not patriots. Let’s take a cursory look at the aforementioned categories of leaders starting from the bottom to the top to determine how and where they might have gone wrong and the consequences of which is the formation of the vicious and virulent insurgency groups now waging unconventional and devastating war against society. With the foregoing as a backdrop, it can be argued that it is failure on the part of some of our parents that did not inculcate the right ethos in their children through adequate parental care that made some of the outlaws susceptible to rebellion and deviancy. By the same token, it is as a result of the traditional rulers and institutions not playing their critical role of good character building that our fellow citizens who are bereft of positive morals have constituted themselves into religious insurgents and outlaws. Were our leaders that are the custodians of our culture and values up and doing by inculcating rich cultural values in our children, husbands and fathers that now function by their own rules, based on extreme interpretation of religion, the menace of insurgency might not have arisen. To be continued tomorrow Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION