Citing economic benefits accruing from the multi-billion $650,000 bpd capacity Dangote Refinery currently under construction, organised labour at the weekend threw its weight behind the project, describing it as a singular investment that will define the future of Nigeria and the African continent. Leaders of trade unions of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) such as Textile, Chemical, Electricity, Automobile, Engineering as well as Petroleum and Gas, who are affiliates of international labour platform called IndustriALL Global Union, said the size of the refinery project spoke volume of the entrepreneurial spirit of Aliko Dangote. Calling on the Federal government to give all the supports needed to aid timely completion of the project, the labour leaders recalled that more than 40 “handbag businessmen” were initially issued license to operate refinery during the former President Olusegun Obasanjo regime, but unfortunately, none of them had been seen to clear the land let alone starting construction. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Comrade Babatunde Olatunji, Chairman of the Nigerian Council of IndusriALL Global Union, said the investment patriotism of Aliko Dangote was unparalleled and disclosed that the labour had recommended Dangote to United Nations for Africa Industrial Development Ambassador. He explained that the labour leaders were motivated to give their views to newsmen on their findings on the Dangote Refinery after a working tour of the project in Lagos. EU Regulators To Investigate Willis Towers Deal Tesla Shares Fall Ahead Of S&P 500 Debut Their visit to the refinery, according to him, was in tandem with the industrial development sustainability goal of the global union. The union also has as part of the goals the defence of workers right, building union power, fighting precarious wok and engaging capital. “To our amazement, we couldn’t move round the whole of the refinery and the fertiliser sites because of the huge size, which is eight times bigger than the present Victoria Island. Upon completion, the refinery alone is capable of employing directly 300,000 workers while the fertiliser will attract about 5000 direct jobs. This is highly welcome in view of the present jobs depleting economy of Nigeria. “With the present policies and efforts towards the diversification of Nigeria’s economy, the fertiliser plant shall encourage and enhance agricultural sector in no small measure as there shall be massive food production while cash crops shall equally constitute raw materials for our manufacturing sector and for exportation” Olatunji stated. He enthused that labour was pleased with Dangote for all his investments, stressing that without investments, jobs won’t be created for qualified people. In his own remark, Issa Aremu, the immediate past Secretary of the Textile workers union, maintained that for Africa to move forward, the continent must trade on goods produced locally to stimulate competitiveness within the region. Recalling how past leaders developed each of the North, East and West through resources from agricultural produce and how Nigeria was once self-sufficient in petroleum production before it became a net exporter, Aremu said the Dangote refinery was on the verge of correcting the anomaly. IndustriALL Global union represents 50 million workers from 140 countries of the world in the mining, energy and manufacturing sectors. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION