Gareth Bale is set to miss the next few weeks as injury continues to disrupt his emotional return to Tottenham. Spurs boss Jose Mourinho expects to be without the forward until well into the new year after he suffered a calf problem against Stoke last week. Bale was forced off during the Carabao Cup quarter-final victory and then missed Sunday’s 1-1 draw at Wolves altogether.+4 EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The Spurs boss is concerned by his side’s lack of ruthlessness after leading for 85 minutes at Molineux. Fellow forwards Lucas Moura and Carlos Vinicius also missed the trip to Molineux and afterwards, Mourinho was asked whether Bale would feature against Fulham on Wednesday. COVID-19: NMA Attributes Second Wave To Poor Adherence To Guidelines Isco Determined To Leave Real Madrid Next Summer -Report ‘No I don’t expect him to be fit and also I have my doubts that Lucas and Vinicius can be fit for Fulham,’ he said. It represents another setback for Bale, who has started only one Premier League game since rejoining Tottenham on a year-long deal in September. As reported by Sportsmail, the loan is believed to be worth more than £13million – with Madrid footing some of the bill. He did not feature until October 18 after arriving with a knee injury and, even when fit, the 31-year-old has been largely limited to Europa League appearances. His opening goal in the win against Stoke took his tally to three in 11 appearances. Without him at Molineux, Tanguy Ndombele scored as Tottenham threw away another lead against Wolves. The £65m club-record signing shone again in midfield and Mourinho is pleased with how he has developed in his second season. ‘We are happy, apart from a couple of matches where his performances were not good, overall there was a big evolution,’ Mourinho said.+4 Jose Mourinho admits Bale will be out for ‘a few weeks’ during a busy period in Spurs’ season+4 Mourinho was full of praise for Tanguy Ndombele (pictured right scoring at Wolves on Sunday) claiming the £63million midfielder is giving ‘good things’ to the team ‘I believe, to play at this intensity – Premier League intensity – and to last for 90 minutes is of course another step in the direction of his fitness. But he’s a player of course who is playing very well and is giving some good things to the team.’ Ndombele is yet to complete a full league game this season and Mourinho added: ‘There are players that naturally they have different qualities than others. Some players are very physical, some are very intense. Others are more explosive but they don’t last for 90 minutes. Or they have difficulties lasting 90 minutes. ‘In his case, he’s adapting to a league that is not new, new, new for him but let’s forget last season where he didn’t play much and he had lots of injuries. ‘And this season I believe to play at this intensity and to give the team what it needs with and without the ball, it’s not easy for him to last 90 minutes.’ SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION