Victims of the Boko-Haram bomb blast in St. Monica Catholic Church, Malali Area of Kaduna have cried out over neglect by the government eight years after the incident. The survivors of the attack disclosed this on Saturday during a visit to the community by a former Senator representing  Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the 8th, Shehu Sani. They said they have been abandoned and left to cater for themselves since 2012. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! While receiving the Senator the survivors called for assistance from government and individuals to come to their aid to enable them get back to their normal life. Avoid Travelling To Stay Safe, WHO Warns Amid Spike In Africa’s COVID-19 Numbers Clergy Urges Nigerians To Intercede For The Country Polycap Lawrence,  a member of the church who lost an eye in the attack said he has been paying for his medical bills with the little support from the church which has not been enough. He said “since the bomb blast of 2012, I have not found my rythm.  Life has been so difficult for me and my family. Their has been alot of empty promises from government and some individuals,” he lamented. Lawrence continued saying he was caught in the middle of the attack, as he was on duty “that faithful day the suicide bomber rammed in the the fence of the church. I risked my life to save alot of people and I found my self unconscious in the hospital.” Another survivor of the bomb blast identified  only as Jonathan complained of lack of support from government,  saying  while he was admitted at st. Gerald hospital in Sabo after suffering from the attack, he barely get assistance from government. In his reaction, Senator Shehu Sani  promised to render assistance to the victims of the attack, saying it is unfortunate that such people are left to cater for themselves after going through trauma. He said it is the duty of state and Federal government to keep the victims of violence and terror under their custody,  as they are law abiding and obedient citizens that unfortunately suffered attack from enemies of the country. According to the lawmaker, “When a tragedy happens it is on the front pages of the newspaper , years after, the victims of such violence will be left to fend for themselves. “Victims violence, victims  of banditry are supposed to be in the custody of the states and federal government. They should be seen as people who died in the service to their country. “Those People suffered prosecution. people who lost part of their body simply for being peaceful,  respectful and obedient citizens of this country,” he said. Sani urged the victims of the bombblast not  to  “grief that you have lost your eyes or limbs, the mark you see that you are not born with singles you out even in the year after. Even if your scars have been there more than eight years, the nation is still indebted to you. “We always say we thank God that there are no bombings in this country,  but we cannot say there is an end to killings in this country. “Churches and mosques are not bombed, it is a fact today,We are Grateful to God for that and appreciate the effort of the FG and President Buhari in that respect,but people are still killed in large number and people are kidnapped in large number;Just today in Southern Kaduna,Apostle Emmanuel Bako and his wife Cindy were abducted from prayer ground” It would be recalled that a suicide bomber drove a vehicle packed with explosives into the Catholic church where worshippers gathered and the attack led to the killing of about 8 persons and 100 others injured. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION