Constituents of Lere Federal Constituency in Kaduna State, known as Concerned Citizens have expressed their displeasure over the refusal of the House of Representatives to reinstate their representative in the person of Eng. Suleiman Aliyu Lere. The Constituents vowed to occupy the National Assembly should the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila fails to reinstate their Representative , Engr. Suleiman Aliyu Lere of the APC before 8th of January 2021 The Constituents also stated that the Speaker should tender a written public apology to the people for shielding Lawal Muhammad Rabiu of the PDP  and flagrantly denying their Representative to occupy his seat. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! At a press briefing  in Kaduna, Barr. Suleiman Lere, the spokesperson for Concerned Citizens from Lere Federal Constituency, recalled the  “Erroneous Decision” of the Court of Appeal which led to the removal of their Representative to be replaced by Lawal Muhammad Rabiu of the PDP, but was successfully challenged in which the same Court set aside its “Wrong” Judgement. The group noted with dismay several friutless efforts to make the House leadership follow the path of justice by honouring a subsisting court judgment in favour of their member, frowned at the adamant disposition of the speaker Delta Exco Approves Construction Of 13 Roads, Flyover Makinde Harps On Zero Tolerance For Corruption, Inaugurates State’s Agency According to the Spokesman, a Certified copy of the enrolled Orders and ruling of the Court of Appeal was served on INEC, APC, Clerks of the NASS,  House of Rep and the Speaker. “INEC immediately complied and issued a new Certificate of Return to Suleiman Aliyu Lere thereby confirming the withdrawal of the nullified Certificate of Return issued to Rabiu Muhammed Lawal”, the spokesman said. The Spokesman said all efforts including correspondence demanding compliance with the Court Order by the Speaker fell into deaf ears. “Again, on the 16th December 2020, Hon. (Engr) Suleiman Aliyu Lere through his Counsel, Ibrahim K.Bawa SAN,  wrote and drew the Hon Speaker’s attention to the likely consequences of disobeying the unambiguous orders of the Court.” “Up to the time of this Press briefing, the orders of the Honourable Court of Appeal has not been complied with nor has it been executed by the Hon. Speaker, or Clerk to the National Assembly as well as Clerk to the House of Rep.” “This is not only absurd , but peculiarly offensive to the provision of Section 75 (1) and (2) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended)”, he said. The concerned citizens said they are demanding among others, the immediate and unconditional reinstatement of their elected representative, Suleiman Aliyu Lere back to his office by virtue of the mandate of the people,, Judgement and Order of the Court and valid certificate of return already issued to him and served on the Hon. Speaker. The Spokesman, said it was surprising to note that the Hon. Speaker being a Lawmaker and  lawyer could commit contempt by disobeying Court orders. According to the group the PDP member occupying the seat is doing so illegally after the court had upheld the election of APC candidate, wondering why the Speaker and National assembly is still foot dragging. “Engr. Suleiman Aliyu Lere and his Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), have made concerted efforts to be re-instated to his legitimate seat as the member representing Lere Federal Constituency of Kaduna State as to resume his official duties at the House of Representatives, but to no avail up till date.” According to him” Since the ruling of the Court of Appeal delivered on 2nd day of October 2020, a period of over 40 days, Lere Federal constituency has not been legally represented at the Federal House of Representatives thereby putting the good people of the Constituency at a grave disadvantage. “All members of the House of Representatives in the 9th Assembly are allowed to carry out their legitimate duties, and are being paid their salaries, allowances and other benefits relating to their seats since their inauguration on 11th of June 2019. Whereas Engr. Suleiman Aliyu Lere was not allowed so, and has not been paid any salary, allowances and/or other benefits from the end of November 2019 till date, a period of about thirteen (13) months.” He further noted “It is the responsibility of all citizens to ensure that justice delivery in Nigeria is not hampered in anyway and Court Judgments must be enforced. By the provision of section 287 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) the decisions of the Court of Appeal shall be enforced in any part of Nigeria by all authorities and persons and by Courts with subordinate jurisdiction to that of the Court of Appeal.” Maintaining that “The Court of Appeal being the final Court on post-election matters relating to the National Assembly seats, having made an order that Engr. Suleiman Aliyu Lere‟s earlier certificate be recognized and given effect to, and the Independent National Electoral Commission having fully complied with the orders, the House of Representatives, and the Speaker in particular, are duty bound to ensure unpretentious and expeditious compliance.” The group said their position is ” That WE willingly elected APC and its candidate Hon. (Engr.) Suleiman Aliyu Lere as member representing Lere Federal constituency in 2019; “That the judiciary represented by the Apex Court, that is the Supreme Court of Nigeria, affirmed and endorsed the decision of the good people of Lere Federal Constituency of Kaduna State.” “That as at today, the only legally recognized member, representing Lere Federal Constituency who won the general election with a landslide victory and has a valid Certificate of Return from INEC to us is Hon. (Engr.) Suleiman Aliyu Lere.” “That till date, in the entire National Assembly and in particular the House of Representatives, there ¡s only one office known and referred to as the office of the Honourable Member Lere Federal Constituency, which cannot be shared by two representatives.” “That Muhammed Rabiu Lawal, of the PDP who was vehemently rejected by the Constituents at the polls, with no valid Certificate of Return and no Judgment or order, of the court in his favour, is being held by the Rt. Honorable Speaker and imposed on us, the good and peace loving people of Lere Federal Constituency against our wish and without our consent or approval” it added. The group further demanded saying, “We collectively and unanimously demand from the Hon. Speaker the following; “The immediate and Unconditional re-instatement of our elected representative (Hon. Engr. Suleiman Aliyu Lere) back to his office by virtue of the mandate of the people, judgment and order of the court and valid certificate of return already issued to him and served on the Rt. Hon. Speaker.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION