JEROME-MARIO UTOMI As a response to a recent intervention entitled’ Youths Quest For New Order; Still an Elusive Search” which among other things frowned at the youths inability to use the Saturday 5th December, 2020, legislative by-elections in the country, organised by the Independent National Electoral commission (INEC), as an experimental subject (Guinea-Pig) to send political signals of the need for a generational change in leadership of the country come 2023, I got several reactions from esteemed readers. While all contributions were well appreciated, one not only made a whole lot of sense but gave big helping hands to this piece. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It reads; Youths must first get their priorities right. Secondly, youths should partner with Civil Society to demand that local government elections must be conducted by the Independent National Electoral commission (INEC). That is the easiest way youths and oppositions can win elections, he concluded. Apart from the fact that well foresighted Nigerians have, in the past, argued that to free local councils from the clutches of the state Governors and ensure credible elections into local councils, the power to appoint chairpersons and commissioners of the State electoral bodies should be removed from the state governors, the global community, especially development-based groups and elections observers, do not think that what Nigeria is doing is the best way to organise elections be it at Federal, states or local government levels as Governments actions often fail to meet the four basic conditions necessary to create an enabling environment for holding of free and fair elections. Has Leah Sharibu Been Forgotten? The Second Wave Of COVID-19 Pandemic These conditions they noted include; an honest, competent and non-partisan body to administer the election, the knowledge and willingness of the political community to accept basic rules and regulations governing the contest for power, a developed system of political parties and teams of candidates presented to the electorates as alternative choices. And an independent judiciary to interpret electoral laws and settle election disputes. Such worries partly explain the inertia, and damning/reports that trails every election in the country monitored by international observers. With the above highlighted, lets focus on major concerns that are local Councils specific. Local governments and elections, says a recent report, are two essential features of modern democracies. They help to establish, nurture and sustain democracy and democratic political culture. Elections provide the electorate with the power to freely participate in choosing their leaders and in providing the much-needed support and legitimacy to the state. Yet, its electoral approach/process has become curiously old fashioned and derogates the sanctity of elections as an institutional mechanism for conferring political power on citizens in a democratic dispensation. This claim is supported by many facts. In the accounts by Massoud Omar, Department of Local Government and Development Studies, Institute of Administration, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria, credible elections into local government councils have been non-existent since independence in 960 till date. This is because the local councils are often subjected to controls by the upper levels of government in the federal system of government. Adding that during the First Republic, the Native Authorities (as local governments were then called) were under the control of the regional governments. The Constitution of the Second Republic (1979-1983) gave state governors the power to dissolve local councils and appoint Caretaker Committees to run the affairs of local councils. ‘The 1999 Constitution currently being operated empowers state governors to appoint chairpersons of State Independent Electoral Commissions, the electoral umpires mandated to conduct local government elections in the 36 states of the federation. As the situation stands, there is some ambiguity as to whether the state governors can dissolve local councils before elections are conducted at the expiration of their tenure, but often, state governors capitalise on this ambiguity to dissolve local councils at the end of their tenure, and appoint Caretaker Committees. Often, these Committees are staffed with cronies and party sympathisers’. Anambra State is a vivid example of a state where Caretaker Committees took charge of local council affairs for about 10 years under four successive governors – Chris Ngige, Peter Obi, Andy Uba and Virginia Etiaba and again Peter Obi who towards the tell end of his administration organized election on January 11, 2014.Those elected have since vacated their positions since 2016. As at the time of filing this report, no local council elections have been held in the state since the dissolution under Governor Willy Obiano’s led administration. Similarly, in most states where local government elections seem to have been held, there appear no remarkable difference between such a result and that of a one-party affair. According to a commentator, it amounts to “selection” and “appointment” of local representatives because state governors use the incumbency factor to rig elections in favour of their preferred candidates. Situations where local councils are controlled by opposition parties are rare, and where this happens, the local councils are dissolved and caretaker committees, often made up of sympathisers of the ruling party are appointed in their place. Utomi is the Programme Cordinator (Media and Public Policy), Social And Economic Justice Advocacy (SEJA), Lagos. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION