LAGOS  – It is very important to make a fresh financial start especially in the area of organising your finances at the onset of the New Year if you really desire to change your financial situation positively. Besides, there is no better time than now to strategise how you can effectively advance and organise your finances better than previous years, despite the unfavourable economic situation. And to reach your financial set goals, learning how to manage your money better is a nonstop practice and once you key into it you would be very advantageous. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Earning a living is a formidable task which entails working very hard to attain financial independence and this has nothing to do with the status of the individual. But then, the hostile state of the economy coupled with the corona virus pandemic has not helped the situation as it has continued to affect the standard of living adversely, thus, making survival a big struggle to many people. How To Resist Temptation Of Impulse Buying This Christmas Before Spending Fortunes On Christmas, Think Twice With this, saving for the rainy day, let alone managing the money that comes in without incurring debts becomes almost impracticable for some individuals due to the high cost of living and reckless spending. That is why it is imperative in this New Year to put into practice a plan on how best to manage and increase your money to avoid living a life of debts. Do you know that failure to adhere to this will certainly lead to a huge financial burden whose end result may be devastating? If you really need a better and worthwhile financial life, it is vital to change your mind set about how you view debts and work out the need to have a plan for your money. Having a proper grasp of your money is not just about making ends meet at the end of the month but the ability to have a good financial sense such that savings or investing for the future is given utmost priority. The following tips can assist you to plan and manage your money better this New Year: Understand Your Financial Situation It is expedient to know your financial worth or how much money you have before you can start managing your money better. It will be very useful to save receipts for a month so as to establish where money is spent outside major bills like rent, utilities and debt payments. For some people, it can be a clarion call to understand how much money is being spent on items such as provisions and food items. Evaluate Your Income It is vital you evaluate your income to avoid unnecessary expenses and bloated budget. If your monthly earning is on the low side, you should endeavour to live within your budget to meet your immediate needs. But when you are pre-emptive and have a blueprint for your money, you can at least evade getting into debts and making your situation worse. With a good financial plan in place, you can actively manage and increase your finances without regrets. Spend Wisely It will do you a great good to think before you spend, particularly when you are faced with a spending decision that has to do with large purchases. Do not just accept you can afford something when you have not actually confirmed if the required funds of the purchases have not been tampered with. That is why budgeting is vital and cannot be ignored if you desire to manage your money better this year. If you do not keep track of your expenses whether bulk or small, savings cannot be accommodated, rather, you will give room for debts accumulation. Have A Budget Many people do not see the need of having a budget as they consider the process rigorous especially in the area of listing out expenses. Instead of concentrating on the process of creating a budget, focus on the worth that budgeting would bring to your life. Having a monthly, yearly or weekly budget is a panacea for unwarranted expenses. If you are the type that wants to purchase everything that comes your way, you really need a budget to keep you on track on your spending habits. Please, note that spending your money on paper before you disburse it in the real world enables you to have complete control over your money. Be Realistic About Your Budget You need to be honest with yourself about your budget; after all, it is your money and how you spend it depends on you. So, there is really no need to be untrue to yourself in the area of expenses when making a budget. Just try as much as possible to make a budget that is realistic for easy adherence. But if you have no inkling on how you spend your money, your budget might take a few months to gel. That is why it is important not to put down any inflexible number until you can get realistic with yourself. Be Flexible It is important that you try as much as possible to review your budget and your expenses at least monthly as life itself is unpredictable. You might get an increase in your salary and that means you can save more if you are prudent. Make Plans To Get Out Of Debt As soon as you commence using a budget to get complete control of where your money goes, you can start confronting your debt, by trying to make effort to clear them and living within your income or spending plan. Your aim should be to banish getting into debts. Stick To Your Budget Your budget is worthless if you make it and refuse to use or adhere to it or worse still allowing it to gather dust in a folder stocked away in your bookshelf. It is important you talk about it frequently throughout the month as it would help to guide your spending decisions. Ensure you update your budget as you pay bills and spend on other monthly expenses to have an idea of amount spent on expenses and what you have left. Limit Unbudgeted Expenses It is crucial you try as much as possible to restrict your expenses or limit your spending habits especially purchases not budgeted. A critical part of your budget is the amount of money left after you subtract your expenses from your income. A prudent person may desire to save such if it is of great value, but if you may not desire to spend it. Your purchase must not be more than the money saved. Track Your Expenses It is imperative you track your expenses, as small procurements here and there add up speedily without your knowing and if care is not taken, you may end up overshooting your budget. That is why there is need to start tracking your spending to determine places where you may be unintentionally overspending. Keep your receipts and write your purchases on a spending paper, classifying them to detect areas where you have a hard time keeping your spending in check. Plan For The Unexpected You need to plan for the unexpected by having a fund dedicated for that purpose so as not to be taken unaware when it occurs. For example, you apparently do not plan on your car breaking down, or your child needing medical attention, but it pays to anticipate this unforeseen event to happen and make proper financial planning. Investing Your Savings As your savings start to grow, ensure you have an investment plan, you could put more money into your pension account. By so doing you are planning a comfortable retirement life for yourself and family. Create an investment plan based on your goals and time frame. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION