Coscharis Motors over the weekend at its Lagos office unveiled four new Renault brands to the Nigerian market, saying the quality products would create the needed changes in auto business in the country. The auto company also assembles two of the four new brands at its auto plants at Awoyaya area of Lekki-Epe Expressway in Lagos. The four new Renault brands unveiled to auto journalists at the events are Logan, Duster Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), Kwid and its flagship, Koleos. Logan and Duster are assembled at its Semi Knocked Down (SKD) assembly plant in Lagos. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The company said that in a bid to make maintenance of the Renault brands easier and more accessible to its clients, it recently opened after-sales offices in Lagos and other states across the country, assuring that the brands would make driving more enjoyable to auto enthusiasts. Mr. Olusola Afolayan, the Plant Manager, Coscharis Motors, while speaking while taking auto journalists around the auto plant in Lagos, said that the plant, which was solely dedicated to Renault brands, had the capacity to assemble 30 units of vehicles per day. Transport Owners Raise Concerns Over Non- Disbursement Of N10bn COVID-19 Bailout Fund Ford’s $2.6bn Investment To Boost VW Transporter Van Plant In Turkey Afolayan, however, said that due to the market size, the plant currently assembles only 10 units of vehicles daily, but assured that as the economy improves, more vehicles would be rolled out of the plant daily. So far, the Plant Manager hinted that at least 63 vehicles had been assembled in the plant, which commenced operations about three months ago. He said: “We started the process to establish the auto plant in December 2019, but the actual assembly commenced in September 2020. “Presently, we have assembled about 63 vehicles from this plant. It takes just 90 minutes to fully assemble a vehicle in this our auto plant. “Our full capacity daily is 30 units per day, but for now, the average we are doing is just 10 units daily. This is largely due to the Nigerian market; all the underbelly parts are assembled on the jig. We hope the economy improves so that we can do more and create more jobs.” Abiona Babarinde, General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, also speaking at the event, said that Renault Automobile Company has improved with its state-of-the-art technology, which further makes its products more competitive, not just in the Nigerian market, but worldwide. Abiona, however, sought for government’s support in order to effectively grow the auto business in Nigeria, stressing that with government supports and formulation of favourable policies, auto business’ contributions to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would increase. “We are good to go with the Renault brands in Nigeria. With necessary supports from the government, we can deliver to Nigerians. These are French products that are taking the lead in the Nigerian market. We are very proud of our latest brands. “Despite all the distractions, we at Coscharis Motors still believe in Nigerian market. We want to create more jobs for more Nigerians. With our after-sales service, motorists will be more at home with our products,” he said. The highlight of the event was the test-drive of the four brands by auto journalists. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION