ABUJA  – The Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) recently announced that it was taking steps to complete four of its power plants, namely Alaoji, Egbema, Omoku and Gbarain power stations which have a combined capacity of about 2,000MW of electricity to add to the grid. For quite some time now the generation and transmission capacity of the Nigeria power sector has been in the region of 7, 000 megawatts (MW), out of which an average of 3, 000MW is what is distributed to electricity consumers across the country, according to figures made public by the Ministry of Power. Engr Sale Mamman, the minister of Power, who blame of wobbling performance of the sector mainly on lack of effective distribution system in the value chain, told newsmen that Nigeria has installed capacity of 13,000 megawatts of electricity of which it could only make 7,000 on the grid, and could only distribute 3,000 megawatts of that generation. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Industry players in conversations with our correspondent, believe that given the geometrically growing population of Nigeria which has been put at over 200 million, to be talking about 7, 000MW generation capacity for so long shows that the level of energy poverty in the land is still hitting the roof, even as efforts to increase access to power in the country are being orchestrated. It was gathered from a reliable that that Works on the plants which were originally awarded to Rockson Engineering Company Limited have stalled, leading to the cancellation of the contracts by NDPHC. The FirstBank 59th Lagos Amateur Golf Open Championship Tees Off Berger Paints Appoints Iheanacho As Non-Executive Director Engr Kassim Abdullahi, the new Executive Director, Generation, NDPHC, while speaking shortly after an  inspection visit to the project sites, said the company was making effort to engage new Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contractors to complete the plants and make them available to the National Grid. He said: “In the short term, we will engage the right EPC contractors to make sure we complete them, have a thorough follow up on all the key issues concerning these power plants and make them operational. “We will employ the strategy of getting competent consultants to ensure that these projects are followed through. The aim is to make these power plants available and also ensure speedy engagement with the right government agencies for evacuation of power from the plants”. Speaking at the 1,074 Alaoji plant in Abia State, Abdullahi noted that while some parts have been completed and are operational, a lot of work still needed to done to complete the project. “We have gone round to see the condition of the parts for the completion of the steam turbine; we have taken note of some of the quick fix that we need to work on quickly. So, I believe that in the next few months, we will see a lot in the progress of this project”, he stated. While at the 378.3MW Egbema Power Plant near Owerri, Imo State, whose contract was awarded in 2006, Engr. Abdullahi said a lot of work also needed to be done to complete the plant and bring it on-stream. He observed: “It looks very much like an abandoned project with so many things out of place. The reason for our visit here is to ascertain the level of job that is pending to be completed and also advise the top management on how we can quickly step in to ensure that this project is completed in no distance time. “This is work in progress; we have just taken back the project from our EPC contractors after a long period of delay. It is very important plant and a lot power stranded here at a time a lot of Nigerians need it. We want to bring in a new competent EPC that can complete the project”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION