INNOCENT OWEH AND AHMED MUSA ABUJA – A coalition of Nigerian Muslim professionals has condemned at­tacks trailing Bishop Matthew Kukah following his Christmas Day Message,where he allegedly berated the adminis­tration of President Muhamma­du Buhari. This is as a member of the House of representatives from Kogi State, Tajudeen Yusuf, has described as “needless”, the ongo­ing criticism of Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah’s message on the state of insecurity and other cur­rentills, sayingthatitreflectsa”de­liberate effort to ignore the mes­sage and attack the messenger.” EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Kukah had on his Christmas day message to his congregation, warnedthatunlessleaderssitup­,Nigeria was heading towards a failed state. But, some government offi­cials had reacted to the message, interpreting it as calling for top­plingof thegovernmentinpower. Crossover Night: CAN Asks Churches To Close Services By 11p.m Customers Resort To PoS Amid Disappointing Bank ATMs The revered Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Archdiocese was also quoted as accusing President Buhari of piloting Nigeria into darkness in the message titled:”A NationinSearchof Vindication.” He took a swipe at the wors­ening state of insecurity in the country just as he berated the current administration of glar­ingly abandoning the nation’s ex­tant federal character principles and rather promoting nepotism with impunity. The coalition of Nigerian Muslim Professionals commended Kukah for what they described as “his boldness to speak truth to power”, faulting those vilifying him. In the statement signed by the group’s National Coordinator, Prof. Mohammed Inuwa, the group noted that President Bu­hari means well for the country, but faulted him in some actions taken by his administration which it said,was not promoting unity. The Coalition of Nigerian Muslim Professionals said the country would be a great place to live if there were up to three persons like the Catholic bishop, saying those who were hiding from the truth were doing so for their personal interests.. It tasked the President to see the Bishop’s message as a wake-up call with a view to adjusting his policiesandprogrammesforthe betterment of the Nigeria and Nigerians. The Nigerian Muslim Profes­sionals took a swipe at those troll­ing the Bishop, saying they were doing it for their pecuniary gains and not the interest of the country. The group said having fol­lowed Bishop Kukah’s activities and preachings since the days of themilitary, itwasconvinced that not to many Nigerians took the interest of the country at heart like kukah”. “Even during the military era where people dreaded the pow­ers that be at the time, Bishop Kukah,who was then a Catholic priest spoke truth to those at the helm of affairs without fear or favour. He has shown through his actions all the years that he is a true son of Nigeria in par­ticular and Africa in general. We should support him for being boldenoughtocomeouttospeak whatmanyNigeriansknowisthe truth but afraid to speak out for fear of the leadership”, the state­ment read. Meanwhile, in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday, Yusuf noted that many of those attacking Bishop Kukah have ex­tended family members who are facing the stark realities of cur­rent waves of insecurity, unemployment and poverty that is far much worse than what obtained six years ago. “Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah’s decision to speak truth to power was applauded during the Goodluck Jonathan era but is now being mischievously mis­interpreted as a call for insurrec­tion. “It is even more interesting when the minister with the least level of credibility in the entire Federal Cabinet speaks against the expression of such truthful criticism about grave national issues at Christmas period. “Just this Monday, we read news report about four different attacks carried out by bandits in Safana and Sabuwa local gov­ernment areas of Mr. President’s Katsina State whereby a new­ly-wedded couple and more than eight persons were abducted with several villagers nursing gun shot wounds,” he noted, adding that criticism is an essential part of democracy. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION