LAGOS  – Saying that a chamber of commerce is a network of local businesses or organisations within a particular niche or industry, and working to further their interests through advocacy, networking opportunities and various other member benefits, no doubt explains the activities which Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has been engaged in since it was founded on December 5, 1888, and incorporated in 1950 as a non-profit making organisation. Apparently to ensure that businesses are connected, and see to it that values are created for them, the Lagos International Trade Fair (LITF), which birthed in 1981, and adopted in1986 by the LCCI, when it began to be hosted annually as a 10-day event, has remained the largest International Trade Fair in Nigeria, and spectacularly held on the first Friday in November of every year. It would be recalled that in all the 34 Fairs that have been organised so far that each of them has by respective passing year grown tremendously in popularity so much that it has become the leading forum for trade and business promotion in Nigeria, and indeed Africa. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The Chamber is uniquely aware of the high standards expected of an International Trade Fair, and it is, therefore, constantly striving to live up to this expectation. Moreover, the Chamber comprises the ‘crème de la crème’ of Nigeria’s top business organisations and personalities, who are able and ready to enter business interactions with their counterparts all over the world. How Scammers Hide Under Good Names To Defraud The Unwary Those For Whom Christmas Is Bleak Not only has the chamber been connecting businesses together through the Trade Fair and other programmes that it frequently organises throughout the year, it has also been creating values for such businesses as it aptly demonstrated through its generic theme for the 34th annual fair which is ‘Connecting Businesses, Creating Value’. Throwing light to the theme by the President of the LCCI, Mrs. Toki Mabogunje in her welcome address at the opening ceremony of the 2020 Lagos International Trade Fair on Friday, December 4, 2020 at the Tafawa Balewa Square in Lagos, she said: “This theme underscores the importance of relationships and networking among businesses for the purpose of wealth creation. The theme also underlines the value of interactions between producers and service providers and the end users. This is a cardinal objective of the Trade Fair”. At this juncture, it is expedient to ask, “What is value creation, and how has LCCI been creating it for businesses that are affiliated to it? The answer to the foregoing question cannot be farfetched as value creation simply means giving something valuable to receive something else that’s more valuable. In making enquiry from the foregoing perspective, not few businesses that have been participating in the fair annually have been benefiting from the value creation LCCI is noted for. Its importance to participants can be seen from how the Chamber today has grown impressively from a membership of 14 in 1888 to over 2,500 today. Since its incorporation, the Chamber has continued to play a significant role in the economic growth of Lagos in particular and Nigeria in general. Against the foregoing background, it suffices to say that the Fair provides opportunities for various sector groups and professionals to present new products and new ideas. Also, foreign visitors have the privilege of visiting places of interest in the country through the chamber’s hospitality and tourism programme even as eminent dignitaries and policy makers from all over Nigeria visit the Fair on a daily basis throughout its duration. Aptly put, the Fair brings into focus the full potentials and business opportunities existing in Nigeria. No doubt, the testimonials that have been trailing the Fair since it debuted attest to its importance to businesses; both in terms of being a rallying point and creation of values for such businesses. For instance, the testimonials on the marble that have highlighted the just concluded Fair are self-explanatory. Speaking on behalf of the governor, Mrs. Lola Akande, Hon. Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives said: “On behalf of the Governor of Lagos State- Mr. Sanwoolu, I say congratulations to LCCI especially the president, Mr. Ruwase on the success of the Lagos international Trade Fair.It was a spectacular outing and we expect more and even better outing next year. Congratulations once again LCCI”. In the same vein, the national president of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA), said: “Lagos International Trade Fair is always the best and this one is not otherwise. I congratulate the organisers and wish them fruitful business interactions. Also, the Hon. Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, in his commendation, said: “Trade Fairs are one stop shops for economic development. We trust that this edition of the Lagos International Trade Fair will provide information on each of daily businesses make participants, SME, local and international industries to see Nigeria as a hub for business”. In fact, all businesses, successful or not, need Trade Fair as a pedestal of networking with its targets as well as tapping from the values that are inherent from such Fair. It is therefore not surprising that the LITF has over the years become an irresistible commercial nerve Centre for businesses, after all the purpose of a business is to create value (through work), sell or trade it to customers, and capture some of that value as profit, and that has been the forum which LCCI through the LITF has been creating in Nigeria since it took over the trade fair in 1986. Without doubt, business value includes any type of value that will add to the long-term health and success of any given business. It is more than simply economic value. To this end, it cannot be mistaken to say that access to vital information is equally a value. Then, it need to be asked, “Where else can managers of businesses want to be for them to stand be at a vantage position in accessing information that will help in growing their businesses other than being an affiliate of LCCI, and participating at the Trade Fair annually? In light of the foregoing, participants in the just concluded 2020 LITF were privileged to be availed of vital information that were inherent in the goodwill message delivered on behalf of the executive chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, Muhammad M. Nami. He said, the Federal Inland Revenue Service has made the payment of taxes easy for taxpayers by introducing e-services such as e-receipt, e-TCC, e-filing, e-stamp duty and e-tax payment, and that Tax Identification Numbers (TINs) are automatically generated for newly incorporated companies by Corporate Affairs Commission. The TIN is displayed on the registration certificate. He explained that the service understands the plights of taxpayers due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and that was why some palliatives to cushion the effect of the pandemic were introduced. Some of the palliatives, according to him, cut across additional window of penalty and interest waiver for the business that pay up in full, the principal portion of their outstanding liabilities between 4th November, 2020 and 31st December, 2020. Provided the outstanding arrears resulted from , self-assessment and government assessment arising from desk audit, field audit or investigation. Without much ado, LITF Trade Fair has no doubt remained a pedestal where various forms of communication take place and can be observed as key role is played by interactive ways of communication such as meetings, but also in form of events and conferences, which often accompany the exhibition. As commonly known, knowledge is crucial element of interest to both visitors and exhibitors at the fair. It is against the foregoing background that it can be said that presenting information and sharing knowledge occurs parallel with traditional features of trade fairs. All benefits derivable by participating in the LITF cannot in any way be undermined as the organiser is in contact with a large number of companies from certain industries, and many of these firms are innovative. Therefore the organiser can determine what information is needed in the industries. In this sense organiser of the LITF, which is invariably the LCCI, can act as broker of knowledge. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION