ASABA – In the bid to ensure food security in the country, the Federal government, for a week, trained no fewer than 150 youths in Telfairia (ugu) and Tomato production at Kwale, Delta State. National Horticulture Research Institute (NIHORT), assisted by a Federal lawmaker, representing Ndokwa/Ukwuani constituency, Hon. Nicholas Ossai, trained the youths from three LGAs of Ndok­wa East, Ndokwa West and Ukwani. For the sake of clarity, Telfairia is a small genus of flowering plants in the squash family which are na­tive to Africa. They include Telfair­ia occidentalis, the fluted pumpkin, which is an important vegetable in Nigeria and other African nations. It is also known as the oyster nut, a common name it shares with its relative Telfairia pedata. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The training and empowerment programme is aimed at engaging small scale holder farmers to pro­duce what he or she could use to boost family consumption while the trainees were given the sum of N52,000 each and planting inputs to start the farming business in their localities. Dr. Abayomi Olaniyan, the Exec­utive Director, NIHORT, noted that the training covered production, pro­cessing and, storage of Telfairia and Tomato called on the participants to take the training seriously to better their lots. Urhobo Leaders Brainstorm On Harnessing Agricultural Potential In Urhobo Land Ikot Oku Ikono Flyover: Works Commissioner Assures Of Speedy Completion According to Olaniyan, “ tomato is one of the most important and major vegetables grown in Nigeria. It is a profitable horticultural crop that provides income to farmers and agents involved in its production and marketing. It is an essential cooking product such as juice, puree, paste, ketchup/sauce, dry slice and others”. He said Tomato remains “a prof­itable horticultural crop that pro­vides income to farmers and agents involved in its production and mar­keting”. According to the NHRI Executive Director, Telfairia is also an import­ant leaf and seed vegetables, with high demand, stressing that the leaf is of high nutritional, medici­nal and industrial values even as it is also rich in protein, fat, mineral and vitamins. Major General Mohammed Gar­ba, Chairman of NIHORT Govern­ing Board, urged the youths to use the training for maximum produc­tion to achieve the desired food se­curity in the Country. Garba hinted that capacity build­ing is necessary for the youths as it afford them the opportunity to be competent in horticultural value chains of various crops to improve their income. He said: “the commodities are capable of impacting positively on our agricultural economic development. It is in the light of this and in our nation’s agriculture economic development as well as our desire   to achieve sustainable economic empowerment and growth in the commodity value chain of the crop that this very training is important”. In their separate paper representations, Garba and Olaniyan revealed that the country produces 2.3 million metric tonnes against 1.8 million tonnes produced two years ago while the national demand is 3              million. Ossai, who engaged Constituents in tomato preservation and telfairia (Ugu) production said: “Part of the promises he made pertains to human capital development because he believes that development has moved from infrastructure to human capital development especially in a developing Country like ours. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION