LAGOS  – A combination of weak market participation, revision of monetary policy to a tightening cycle, widening fiscal deficit, and fragile macroeconomic environment will lead to an increase in yields over 2021, analysts said. The year 2020 has been a truly exceptional year in, and outside of financial markets with the performance of the fixed income market outstripped that of all traditional asset classes, as a combination of market dynamics and policy actions resulted in yields paring to record low levels. The year also saw Nigerian equities sinking to 8-year lows as investors ran to safety due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but also saw a rapid recovery to 2-year highs as the hunt for yield intensified. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Analysts at Cordros Securities, in the 2021 Outlook on financial markets, said: “The performance in the fixed income market will be a tale of two halves. We expect yields to remain in the low single-digit territory through H1-21, with a moderate uptrend to account for reduced market participation as investors seek yields in other asset classes. They, however, stressed that in the latter part of the year, the fixed market will see improvements in yields. Access Bank Brings Banking Closer To Nigerians With Over 50,000 Closa Agents Union Bank Appoints Emeka Okonkwo As New CEO “Similar to the fixed income market, we also expect it to be a tale of two halves for Nigerian equities in 2021, with the market delivering further upside in the first half of 2021 before retracing slightly in the second half on an expected reversal in fixed income yields. “The sources of risks remain plenty, the macro story remains uninspiring, and valuations are elevated. However, we think the mix of elevated liquidity, low interest rates, attractive dividend yields and earnings recovery argues in favour of an extension of the equity bull market into 2021. On outlook for the banking sector, the analysts said they expect better performance in the sector. “We are ‘Overweight’ on Nigerian Banks, as we expect a combination of strong dividend yield expectations, and resiliency of sector players into the FY-21 financial period to support price performances. “Our picks are Access Bank, FBN Holdings, Guaranty Trust Bank, United Bank for Africa and Zenith Bank”. Looking at other sectors, the analysts said Nigeria’s Cement Sector volume growth in 2021 will be modest due to the lingering impact of the pandemic on government finances and household income. “Although the stiff competitive landscape coupled with soft industry conditions will deter industry players from raising prices substantially, we still see scope for marginal increases in prices. We expect Dangote Cement to deliver decent earnings per share (EPS) growth of 2.9 per cent in 2021. “For Lafarge Africa, we believe the company’s focus on the Nigerian market and continued gains from the deleveraging of its balance sheet, following the sale of the loss-making South African operation, will remain supportive of earnings. We estimate the company will deliver EPS growth of 3.7 per cent in 2021”. In Telecoms, there is a potential negative impact on Q1-21 revenues and earnings if the NCC does not extend the NIN registration deadline and lines are disconnected. “However, we like that MTN Nigeria is putting necessary measures in places to mitigate the disruptions. Consequently, we are conservative on subscriber growth in 2021 (+7.7% vs. 13.3% in 2020E). “The start of the company’s payment service bank (PSB) operations remains the key catalyst for the stock as mobile money in Nigeria presents a compelling growth/return opportunity for MTNN, in our view. However, over the medium to long term, the growth of Nigeria’s and MTNNs subscribers will continue to be underpinned by its attractive demographics as well as the structural upsides”, the analysts said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION