Asaba- The Minority leader, Federal House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Ndudi Elumelu, Director General, Delta State Capital Territory Development Agency (DSCTDA), Hon Joan Mrakpor, Vice Chairman, Aniocha South Local Government Council of Delta, Hon Joe Ikenwe and the Onishe of Ubulu Uku, High Chief Emma Ejiofor were among the awardees Honoured at Ubulu Ezemu Launch/Awards 2020 which held at Ubulu-Uku yesterday. Others that were Honoured at the grand launch were, Dr Stanley Okafor who was given Sports Personality of The Year, 2020, Uche Onyedikachi as Philanthropist of the year, 2020, Ubulu-UkuUSA as Community Development Association of the Year, 2020, Sophia Chukwumaluzom Osakwe amongst others. Speaking at the launch held Saturday December 26th, 2020 at Viva Guest House, Ubulu-Uku, Aniocha South LGA, Publisher of Ubulu Ezemu, Anthony Awunor stated that the historic development of the Initiative is that the New media platform has moved from online to off-line towards visibility, grassroots reach and timely information dessimination. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The Launch of UBULU-EZEMU and the unveiling of Websites United many Political interest groups. “By celebrating People you celebrate yourself and pave way for your testimonies. Grassroots community development efforts is the best way to unite people and promote togetherness. Also the importance of new media towards Sustainable grassroots Development were the things the atmosphere offered the wise at the event”. COVID-19: Medical Director Cautions Nigerians Against Unnecessary Travelling Kalu Explains Visits To Clerics, As Clerics Urges Him Never To Forget Men Of God The event which was a means of greatest unity, reconciliation, a show of love and oneness of purpose amongst different Political interests group which cuts across all Political parties devides was a gathering of WHO IS WHO in Anioma Nation started at about 1.00pm prompt with registration of guests, Introduction of Special guests, opening prayets, welcome address by the publisher of UBULU-EZEMU, opening speech by the Chairman of the occasion, period of dancing, music interlude and refreshment witnessed the presentation of Awards, Launch, networking interaction, photographs and vote of thanks. The University of Lagos trained media Practitioner is vast in African Traditions And Culture. In a separate interview with our reporter, he stated that Ubulu Ezemu is the leading Community online platform with 9 years of grassroots reportage, which encompasses Sectors such as Community Development, Education, sports, entertainment, Culture, tradition, Business, Security and others published and printed by EREC Communication Ltd, duly registered with corporate Affairs Commission. While appreciating all the participants, those who stood by him towards the actualization this laudable Initiative, then called on Stakeholders in Ubulu-Uku Community, Aniocha South, Anioma Nation and Delta State in general to partner the Organization towards Sustainable Development. According to him, historically, Ubulu Ezemu Publishing platform was founded in March, 2011 by him, Comrade Anthony Awunor as a renowned writer and multiple award-winning Journalist at a time Anioma Nation, Communities is burdened with a task of repositioning the face of its information management strategy and quest for it citizens to offer useful and accurate information throughout Anioma Nation. He said: ” We have recorded a lot of achievements in the past 9 years of existence as an organization. Ubulu Ezemu brought love, peace and unity amongst the Youths in Ubulu-Uku Community. Our brothers and Sisters in Diaspora can attest to that. The platform will continue to promote peaceful co-existence and the Public at large. To achieve this the platform has equally developed a Website: www.ubuluezemu.com that will serve as a rallying point for the Community ecosystem in Anioma Nation and Delta State in general through the provision of timely and useful information”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION