The first half of my column today has been surrendered to an article published in the HILL magazine in Mid-December. Here we go: With the Supreme Court’s rejection of the Texas lawsuit, it’s over, right? Not so fast. Trump has one more card to play, depending on whether Republicans in Congress are more loyal to Trump than they are to the country. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! After the electoral votes are cast, they have to be accepted by Congress. By law, the House and Senate meet together on January 6, and if any state’s ballots are challenged by one member of the House and Senate, the chambers must meet separately and vote on the challenge. Given that 126 members of Congress signed on to the Texas lawsuit to overturn Joe Biden’s victory, and that many GOP senators have not accepted Biden as the president-elect, some states are going to be challenged. Ownership From US White House To NUT House Only A Step Here’s where things get interesting. The controlling federal law, the Electoral Count Act (ECA), is more than 100 years old, opaque and has never been fully used. It may not even be constitutional. The Congress over which the old vice president will be presiding will be the new one, sworn in January 3. The new House, narrowly Democratic, will vote down any challenge. But the Senate? Something very different could occur. Let’s suppose that the balance is 52-48 Republican. But Sens. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) have said that Biden won, so Biden wins in a close vote, right? And even if the Senate votes to uphold the challenges, the ECA has a tiebreaking provision — any slate of electors that is certified by their state’s governor will be accepted if the House and Senate disagree. Biden, again, would win. Thus, The New York Times assumes that Republican challenges to the electoral votes would be futile. But what if the Senate never finishes voting? The ECA limits each challenge to no more than two hours of debate. Four states were questioned in the lawsuit (Georgia, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania), making four challenges and eight hours of delay. Even in the Senate, eight hours of debate can’t last more than a couple days, can it? The law envisions the ability to challenge electoral votes collectively or individually. Surely a crafty legal mind like Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) would challenge, not each state, but each electoral vote separately. And as a delaying tactic, why wouldn’t the Trumpers challenge every Biden state, even Delaware? The goal is not to win, the goal is to delay, to prevent the “tiebreaking” provision of the ECA from happening. Remember, the presiding officer under the ECA is Mike Pence. He can be expected to interpret the rules in a way highly favorable to the Republicans. He can help the GOP delay any resolution until about January 18. Now comes the endgame maneuver. The Constitution specifies that if there is no Electoral College winner, the Senate chooses the vice president and the House picks the president. The Senate, claiming that there is no Electoral College result, picks Pence. Overturning an election? Why not? The raw hatred and polarization in American politics have shown that no precedent or law is safe. Ask Merrick Garland. And it won’t be a Biden-Pence administration. The Democratic majority in the House can’t pick Biden because when picking a president, the House votes by state delegation, and the Republicans control more House delegations. The House Democrats will never let that vote happen. Which means we won’t have a president. If we don’t have a president by noon on January 20, the law of presidential succession comes into play. But who is next in line of succession? Republicans will claim that the presidency is empty, but the Senate did its job and picked Pence as vice president. The Democrats will say the whole process was illegal and unconstitutional, and that the next in line is therefore the House Speaker, presumably Nancy Pelosi. Stalemate. An empty presidency at noon on January 20, with Trump tweeting that it should remain his, Democrats saying Pelosi or Biden and some Republicans secretly hoping it’s Pence. And if you’re thinking that the Supreme Court would save Biden, think again. It would probably rule the question to be a political one, and therefore nonjusticiable. There isn’t a clear constitutional principle or law that the court could apply. Can anything be done to prevent this? Nothing can stop the delay. But the final maneuver of picking Pence by the Senate can be stopped in two ways. First, a few honest Republican senators could vote for Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, since her ticket actually won. That would almost surely mean the end of their political career. Failing that, Democratic senators would have to deny the Senate a quorum, which would mean neither chamber would have picked a winner. Under the 12th Amendment, two-thirds of all senators must be present. If 34 Democrats leave the chamber, they can stop Pence’s selection. If they do, then all the GOP delay would have led to replacing Biden with … President Nancy Pelosi. Of course, if the GOP really wanted to move America toward banana republic territory, the rules allow the sergeant-at-arms to arrest and drag senators back to the chamber to make a quorum. It’s impossible to say if they’d go that far, or if it would succeed. But what we can say is that this isn’t over yet. Most likely, Biden is our next president, but we could be in for a very rough ride between now and January 20. Jeremy D. Mayer is an Associate Professor at the Schar School of Policy and Government at George Mason University and the coauthor most recently of “The South and the Transformation of U.S. Politics” (Oxford 2019). WHERE LIES BUHARI’S GREATNESS? It took me serious reflection before I decided to turn half of my column over to Prof Mayer, an authority on how the Electoral College works in the United States of America. I did that not because I really see any chance that the election results which have so far favoured Me. Joe Biden over the incumbent, President Donald Trump, could be changed or because the American election matters terribly much for Nigeria and Nigerians. No, on the first point, I have joined the rest of the world in knowing that the election has been won and lost.  On the second one, I feel that it is a proof of how much governance has decayed in Nigeria that Nigerian citizens latched onto the American election outcome as though Nigeria has become the 51st state that makes up the USA. It was shameful how Nigerians carried on during the long wait for the final results, and especially how some actually began street marches in support of Trump and how some church leaders organised prayers to swing the election one way or the order. Suddenly, it is like Nigeria no longer matters to us and that we have all become Americans now. My third reason for publishing the piece is to show readers how little we Nigerians know of the American Electoral College system,  yet, we were pontificating effusively over a matter we knew precious little about. With number four reason, we come to the main one why I gave up my column to Prof Mayer; to teach us about the profundity of the American Constitution, and the serious thought that went into creating it, so that little states would always matter in elections. The result is the Electoral College. I hope this will challenge a few persons in the National Assembly as talks are beginning to gather momentum again, about a new constitutional amendment. Now that would be seen and pursued like a war, after all the leader has been favouring a certain area in his appointments such that everyone knows that he actually spat at the policy of National Character. Also, never in the history of Nigeria has what could stand for the National Security Council been so lopsided. Nigeria has now failed in every good indices as insecurity has spread everywhere, even as our leaders have refused to address the killer herdsmen problem. The unprecedented failures of the Buhari administration should warn us about putting our hopes on a messiah – as we did in Buhari. Yes, great individuals have uplifted their societies – Solon who was chosen Archon of Athens in 6th century BC, despite his dictatorial powers, reformed Athens. Pericles ruled over Athens at the peak of it golden age – full of wisdom, loved by his people because he exercised high power moderately. Julius Caesar decorated the Roman stage with great governing talents, enhanced interest in the arts and sciences, and was a military and administrative genius. England is still proud of Alfred the Great who united its diverse peoples. Yes, there was Charlemagne who was great in arts of governance as those of war and brought unity of purpose to different peoples, and so too, Fredrick the Great (Stupor Mundi or Wonder of the World) – great in everything; the arts, sciences, wars, politics, etc, and several Africans …Shaka the Zulu, Mansa Musa, Jaja of Opobo, Nana Olomu of Itsekiri, and so on. Yet, hardly is there a leader that compares to George Washington. Here I quote at length from Barbara Tuchman’s “THE MARCH OF FOLLY”: “The product of a new nation, George Washington was a leader who shines among the best (because) around him in extraordinary fertility, political talent bloomed as if touched by some tropical sun. The (US) Founding Fathers (were) the most remarkable generation of public men in the history of any nation. Not before or after has so much careful and reasonable thinking been invested in the formation of a governmental system”. The US Constitution is the proof of Washington’s greatness. He left behind a wonderful system of governance. What example is Buhari leaving Nigeria? That Constitution, as Prof Mayer’s article shows is truly profound. Now, give the Buhari administration the chance to cobble together a new constitution for Nigeria and we will begin to hear about Cattle Routes, Cattle Colony and RUGA. Despite all the noise about electronic voting and all the money that must have been spent on it; it has not yet been tried in Nigeria; and that under the administration of a man who is touted to be the very best among us, a messiah. Yet, what changes has he brought to make Nigeria a better place for ALL? Have the dividing lines not widened? Years before the US convention, Washington expressed concern that the bold experiment he risked his life for would by killed by disunity. In a letter to James Madison on November 30th, 1785, Washington wrote that: “We are either a united people, or we are not. If the former, let us, in all matters of general concern act as a nation, which have national objects to promote, and a National character to support—If we are not, let us no longer act a farce by pretending to it…” While Washington feared disunion, his leadership during the convention ultimately succeeded in uniting the delegates, and the new nation, behind the idea of a new federal government. There was no blueprint for this monumental undertaking, but it ultimately produced one of the world’s greatest political documents, the United States Constitution. Therein lies his greatness. Where lies Buhari’s greatness? SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION