— Says No End To ASUU’s Blackmail Salihu Moh. Lukman, Director General of the Progressive Governors (Forum) has accused the Academic Staff Union of Universities ASUU of working in cohort with terrorists group Boko Haram in realizing its objective to abolish western education in the country. Lukman in an opinion article entitled “ASUU and Indeterminate Power Struggle – The Boko Haram Logic”, released on Sunday Lukman noted that ASUU cannot mean well with the advancement of public tertiary education in the country if it could spend four years in strikes during a twenty -one period. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He is more saddened by the the fact that respected academics are celebrating the “victory” of the negotiation that led to ASUU ‘s conditional suspension of the 9-month strike, pointing out instead that the union, is helping the terrorist group achieve its goal to destroy university education in Nigeria. “Many respected Nigerian academics have publicly celebrated the point that ASUU has never lost any struggle against Nigerian government, whether military or civilian. Avoid Travelling To Stay Safe, WHO Warns Amid Spike In Africa’s COVID-19 Numbers Clergy Urges Nigerians To Intercede For The Country “These are being said without any remorse or acknowledgement of the damage ASUU strikes has done to Nigerian education system. That we are even thinking that closure of universities and our schools can produce any form of victory with reference to any form of outcome demonstrate our nasty state of mind, which brings us closer to the Hobbesian reality that civilisation would have long resolved. “How can anyone with a child whose dream and aspiration should include being educated, celebrate in any form the closure of schools? What difference is such a logic from the Boko Haram objective of abolishing western education? “It is very sad that it is common knowledge now that in the last twenty-one years, ASUU was on strike for a record period of more than four years. Worse still is the fact that we have people who claim to be public intellectuals that present such a reprehensible scorecard and by any standard a scandalous credential as achievement is sickening. “At this rate, we may as well accept that Boko Haram terrorists are also public intellectuals. In any event, who is a public intellectual? Aren’t Boko Haram terrorists engaged in critical thinking, research and reflections? If their mission is to abolish western education, how farther away from that mission is the activity of any group that causes closure of our universities for nine months in one academic calendar? According to Lukman,”It is almost impossible to cite any country in the world with a pathetic record of strike in universities for nine months in one academic calendar. “As Nigerians, we should be ashamed and traumatised. We must all be worried, concerned and committed to resolving this problem permanently.” The DG expressed worry that given the dynamics of ASUU strikes and poor negotiating skill at the level of the ministry, there can never be an end to seeming sustained public blackmail which the union subject the government, as he urged the APC administration to go beyond negotiation and implement the party’s manifesto in education by “Restore the production of national development plans to promote investment in key national and state infrastructure project. “Establish a new position within the Presidency who will be mandated to coordinate all government actions aimed at achieving the national development objectives” According to him . ” It is very difficult to come to terms with the dynamic playing out between ASUU and Federal Government without recognising that it is no longer collective bargaining in the classical sense of labour relation. It is simply power play, which will sadly have no end. May be this is also a confirmation that in the end, however it is considered, collective bargaining is power negotiations in terms of resource distribution between labour and capital. “This may push us into all the academic and ideological debates around wage determination and roles of unions in the struggles for justice in the workplace. Such a debate can only hold our university education captive and permanently in state of endless power struggles between ASUU and Nigerian government. “Once this is the case, one can predict that ASUU members are incentivised to continue their claimed struggle for both earned and unearned salaries, with due respect to our postmodernist “public intellectuals”. The component referred to as so-called revitalisation fund, coming from the N30 billion, may hardly be a priority. As a result, once there is a meeting in February or March 2021 to review implementation of the agreement, Nigerians may likely start hearing allegations of non-implementation that may be followed with fresh rounds of ultimatum”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION