Hoteliers and other operators of leisure and travel agencies in the country under the aegis of Nigeria Hotels Association (NHA) have lamented the shoddy payment of palliatives promised by the government to workers in the hospitality industry. The National President of the Association, Eze Patrick Anyanwu, in an interview with Daily Independent, condemned the shoddy payment of palliatives to workers in the hotel sector, saying it was poorly implemented as many are yet to be paid EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Eze Anyanwu, who lauded the compassion demonstrated by President Mohammadu Buhari in ensuring that no worker was laid-off during the pandemic, urged the Office of the President, Trade and Investment to speed up the process and pay since the disbursement had the approval of the President. “I salute the father of the country, President Muhamadu Buhari. The government already started paying and some have also received the second tranche. However, hoteliers whose names were captured for the palliative are yet to receive payment. Nursing Mother, 3 Others Killed In Separate Accidents In Delta Female PoS Operator Disarms 2 Armed Robbery Suspects In Edo I am worried that many whose names were captured on the strength of which the federal government released some money for immediate disbursement have not received a kobo. “I want Mr President to look into the causes of the delay. The Presidency should look into this. I want to appeal to President Buhari to prevail on the officers whose responsibilities it was to ensure that all members of the association whose names were forwarded by hotel owners and captured are paid. “The pains suffered during the first wave of the COVID-19 are still weighing down many hotel owners. If the government says we should not sack,  they should complete the palliative payment to support hotel workers and extend the same to their employers. “It is only one-third of our members and workers that have received payment. Many states across the federation are still calling on me that they are yet to receive. These have become annoying because the government had approved and released the fund. I wonder why people whose duty it is to disburse the fund are holding back. He added, “They should pay the money to the beneficiaries of the fund.”Besides, Eze Anyanwu appealed to the Federal Government not to forget grants and soft loans promised owners of hotels, saying that operators in the sector suffered huge losses during the first wave of the pandemic. “The pains suffered during the first wave of the COVID-19 are still weighing down on many hotel owners. This is taking a toll on our businesses and we need support to survive. The challenges we are facing are enormous and despite this, we are still being burdened with different types of taxes. He added, “Electricity tariff has gone up by about 150 per cent and local and state governments are also forwarding bills for this and that.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION