Lagos- Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity on Thursday said those who hate President Muhammadu Buhari and are plotting to destabilize his government are injuring their souls and will soon become gentle by force. In his weekly article titled ‘Enemies Of The Country Will Lose Las Las’ , Adesina commended the swiftness of the President in rescuing the abducted Kankara schoolboys, thereby putting to shame conveners if the #Bring Back Our Boys (BBOB) movement. According to him, the conveners of #BBOB had made 10 million t-shirts and had planned to use the campaign to score political points with the aim of bringing down the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He said “A fortnight ago, when President Muhammadu Buhari proceeded to his hometown in Daura, Katsina State, on a well deserved one week private visit, an uncanny kind of welcome was given to him by bandits long troubling different parts of the country. They spirited away over 300 schoolboys, and began to make all sorts of demands of government, before the boys could be released”. “The development gave us a sense of deja vu. In April 2014, an equally large number of schoolgirls had been kidnapped from a school in Chibok, Borno State, by Boko Haram insurgents. Till today, the girls are not fully recovered” PDP Urges Nigerians To Rekindle Hope, Trust In God Christmas: Nasarawa Speaker Calls For Prayers, Over Insecurity, Felicitate Christians “Also in February 2018, another abduction of scores of schoolgirls took place at Dapchi, Yobe State. Eventually, almost all the girls were recovered, save for Leah Sharibu, who was reportedly held back because she refused to renounce her Christian Faith. Horrendous. Despicable”. “Now, while there are similitudes between Chibok, Dapchi, and Kankara, the significant difference is the response by the different governments in power. When Chibok occurred, the then Goodluck Jonathan-led government demurred. They balked. They said no abduction happened, and that it was an attempt at negative propaganda by the then party in opposition, the All Progressives Congress (APC), to get power” “By the time government wisened up, the abductors had gone far, and the trail was cold. They couldn’t recover the girls, not until the Buhari government came a year later, and a large chunk of the hapless abductees were brought back. Some are still unaccounted for till today”. “When Dapchi happened some years later, the Buhari government behaved differently. It swung into action, went after the abductors, and through a combination of deft factors, the girls were brought back. Except Leah Sharibu”. “With Kankara on our hands, despite the strident cacophony of the market, President Buhari kept his cool, and went to work. And the needful was done. The boys were recovered after about six days in captivity”. “While the saga lasted, and government was working night and day, enemies of the land were on overdrive, doing a jig, hopping from one leg to the other in a macabre dance. It was time to play evil politics once again. It was time to generate opprobrium for the President, and display hatred for their own land”. “In 2014, there had been #Bring Back Our Girls, which contributed to dealing the government of the day mortal blows, and it was voted out a year later. So, the enemies thought they had a sucker punch at their disposal. They came up with #Bring Back Our Boys, and had reportedly printed ten million T-Shirts, which they wanted to use in prosecuting their self-serving crusade.” “Were they interested in the welfare of the Kankara boys, nor in the travails of their parents? Not at all. They were only actuated by vengeance, and the political capital they could get out of it. Their logic (or is it illogic) was clear. If #Bring Back Our Girls brought down a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) government, then #Bring Back our Boys must also undo the APC government”. “There are many thoughts in the heart of man, but it is the counsel of God that shall stand. As the government worked, fervent prayers were also being made by people of goodwill.” “Everything coalesced, and worked together for the good of the country, of the boys, their parents, and of President Buhari. The boys were brought back, intact, unharmed, and not a hair was missing from their heads. To God be the glory. The enemies had lost las las.)”. “They first lost their voices particularly on social media. They vanished after the boys were released. But instead of admitting final defeat, instead of throwing up their hands in surrender, saying that this government was smarter than they thought, they became like Janus, the mythical creature with two faces, and began to speak from two different mouths”. “Listen to one of them, who has been overtaken by bile and hatred for the Buhari government. While the boys were being held, she had declared: “In October, US military forces rescued their one citizen held hostage by terrorists within our territory.” “Buhari as Commander-in-Chief of Nigerian Army, should please accord highest priority to the lives of 333 #Kankara students and seek US support immediately.” In other words, she believed there was an abduction, and it was time to put pressure on a man she didn’t like”. “After the boys were recovered, what did Madam Red Card say? “Maybe the President sent the children on an excursion to terrorists so that they can release the children at will to him. He needs to tell us exactly what happened with the Kankara kids.” “Does anybody still take the woman serious? The Good Book says such people are “in the gall of bitterness and bondage of iniquity.” From such, please run away”. “Anyone steeped in hatred against his or her country, and still goes to church or mosque, or even to herbalists, is very far from God. When such people fast, they are simply on hunger strike. When they pray, they simply blubber. But you know the good news?” “God is interested in this entity called Nigeria. Most times, we live dangerously, but He always pulls us back from the edge of the brink. Those who hate the President for no just cause, who wish evil for their own country, are just injuring their own souls. They will fail las las, and become gentle by force”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION