Orji Udemezue, the chief executive officer of Flame Consulting, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, proffered solution to the challenges that small businesses face and how govern could ensure that funds earmarked for got to them. Excerpts: Many entrepreneurs said they did not receive part of the palliatives and funds announced by government to cushion the impact of COVID-19 on them. What is your comment on this? We have a government that does its programmes and policies in the media, television and radio. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The government announced that it would give palliatives to poor people and give funds to small businesses to over the impact of the pandemic, but most of the people in the villages across the country did not receive the help. They only heard about it and saw other people receive it on television. When the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), announced its N50 billion COVID-19 Fund for small businesses, real and actual entrepreneurs in the country did not access the fund. So, small businesses are struggling and it is very difficult for the country to make sustainable economic advancement at this time. What should be done to ensure that small businesses access funding that has been earmarked for them? Balogun, NDE Train 185 Youths, Women In Lagos Ajayi Empowers Protest Victims With Interest-Free Loans The government does not think deeply about the structure and data they can use to drive the proper implementation of initiative and ensure that small business owners access funding meant for them and palliatives meant for poor people in the country. The government must stop using non-widespread and unpopular structures like Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing system for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) Microfinance Bank to disburse funds to small businesses. The government must broaden their scope by inviting the thousands of microfinance banks in the country; bring them in; train them and let them know what you want to achieve. The Partnership with them on what you want to achieve will help; they are in every part of the country. They can also use registered cooperative societies in the country. Bring in their leaders and share your vision with them and the funds will get to the intended target. The government need to do this so that the fund can make real impact in the life the businesses and the Nigerian economy. As long as they do not do this; as long as they continue to make political announcements, we will keep deceiving ourselves saying that we are help the poor in society when no help is being extended to them. Will the opening of the borders impact the economy? The government has no business closing the borders in the first place. What are government agencies like customs and immigration people doing at the borders? They just passed judgment on themselves that they are incompetent and cannot do their job. They just told us that they are incapable of manning our borders. How could they shut import and export and depriving business of revenues; that led to haemorrhage on the economy? During the time the borders were shut, the country was losing revenue and smugglers were having a field day. Many products that would have exported to neigbouring countries were shut in and the country lost revenue. What is advice to small business owners on how to overcome the pandemic? They should not give up; things will get better. They should re-strategize; learn new skills and importantly develop their capacity to drive their businesses. In terms of funding, they should ask family members, friends and others. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION