LAGOS  – Pastor Tunde Bakare, the General Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church in Lagos, formerly Latter Rain Assembly, is one of those clerics who always speak out, no matter whose ox is gored. Pastor Bakare always bares his mind on the state of the nation from his pulpit during services. However, his critics believe that most of the time, he speaks in favour of the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, who he had once run with as vice presidential candidate. Thus, when he recently commended Asiwaju Bola Tunubu, the former governor of Lagos State, his traducers maintain that the fiery cleric was speaking the mind of Abuja. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Some even insinuated that he had been paid by the power brokers in Abuja to commend Tinubu, who is believed to be eyeing the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential ticket in 2013. The fiery preacher, who once attacked the APC leader from his pulpit, had last Sunday compared him with Jephthah in the Bible, saying he fought many battles for the Yoruba and “delivered Lagos State and nearly all the South-West states from the onslaught of the Peoples Dmocratic Party (PDP) from 1999 to 2007.” Prof. Odekunle, PACAC Member Is Dead Insecurity: Onuesoke Tackles Itse Sagay Over Calls For Citizens To Bear Arms The preacher who spoke to his congregation on Sunday at the church’s headquarters in Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos, through a message, titled, ‘There is None Holy as the Lord,’ wondered why people judged him based on the clip on Tinubu that went viral without listening to the full sermon. He said: “One would have thought that the whole message of over an hour would be listened to so that the context of the clip that went viral would be listened to before judgment is passed by those who considered us to have taken a 360-turnaround compared to the thoughts we had taken previously about the man many love to hate and many hate to love. “Instead, the bath water and the baby were both thrown out by some self-appointed undertakers who think the way forward in our dilemma as a nation is to uproot the tares and separate them from the wheat long before the harvest time ordained by God. “The same undertakers wilfully forget that the current mixture of the bad, the good, and the ugly in the polity are a result of the negligence of our past and present leaders, who slept on duty and allowed the enemy to sow the tares while the good man had planted good seeds on the ground.” Bakare insisted that judgment should be left in the hands of God, adding that his commendation of Tinubu’s political success was not an approval of his lifestyle. He stressed that while many people were sleeping, Tinubu was “working hard and positioning his people in strategic places,” noting for now, that it would be hard for anyone to win an election against Tinubu’s candidate in Lagos. Bakare denied the allegation that he could have been paid by the power brokers in Abuja to praise the APC National Leader, describing such critics as ‘undertakers,’ and urged those with proof that he was bribed, to speak out. He said: “You think somebody will pay me for what I am doing? No one is rich enough to do it. No one in this country or elsewhere is rich enough. And I am not for sale because I have been bought. I was bought by the Blood of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary and no other price can match that. And if you know of anyone who has given me money at any time to do what I am doing, expose it. “One gentleman in particular labelled the part of the message he heard without listening to the rest. With all the PhDs he acquired, he said, ‘Tunde Bakare strategical delegitimisation of Tinubu.’ “Brothers and sisters, I say this before God who will judge the quick and the dead, none of these things is true. They are all the figments of the imagination of the writers and they are entitled to their opinions. It would be recalled that Bakare had in October attacked Tinubu, alluding that the APC leader was corrupt. He specifically tackled the politician, claiming that he would give account one day. Bakare, a former vice presidential candidate and convener of the Save Nigeria Group (SNG), spoke during a sermon at the church’s Ogba, Lagos, international headquarters. This was before he moved the church’s headquarters to Oregun, also in Lagos. The cleric, who recently said he would be the 16th President of Nigeria, in the sermon, lampooned some politicians for their financial recklessness and lack of commitment to the growth of the country. He contended that the collapse of infrastructure in Nigeria was as a result of stealing of the people’s resources by some politicians. Using a coded term, Bourdillon, a name popularly associated with the former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Bakare claimed that he (Tinubu) would give account of some of his deeds. He regretted that the people were praising the APC leader, and regarding him as a ‘generous man.’ Bakare, who also spoke about the 2023 race argued, “a truly generous man is a man who devises generous things, and by generosity he shall stand. “The eyes of those who see will not be dim. The ears of those who hear will listen. Also, the heart of the rash will understand knowledge and the tongue of the stammerers will be ready to speak plainly. The foolish person would no longer be called generous.” He added: “That’s why potholes are killing you; that’s what pools of water… you can’t drive now anymore because what is meant for roads has been stolen since democracy began. They are living larger than life, having jets here, having jets there, having house in Bourdillon, having house in this place, having house in that place, having house in every place at the expense of the public. “Unfortunately, Nigerian people, you celebrate your villains and crucify your heroes.” The question in the mind of critics is: Between October last year when Bakare took Tinubu to the cleaners, and December 2020 ending, what has really changed that made the cleric have a rethink about the APC leader? Dr Tunde Moses Elebute, a public affairs commentator, maintained that nothing has really changed between October 2019 and December 2020, and that Bakare has only been playing politics. Elebute maintained that Bakare had in November declared his interest in the nation’s presidency, having said he would be President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor in 2013. Elebute maintained that Bakare could indirectly be seeking the support of Tinubu, who many believe also has interest in the position, although he is yet to make a public declaration about that. According to him, “Nothing has changed. Individual ambitions can make him change. It is sad for a man of God to play politics from the pulpit. He can call a press conference to do that. He can speak during rallies. He can grant press interviews. But, he should stop using the pulpit for politics.” According to him, Bakare was wrong to have been using his pulpit to eulogise someone and later make a volte face, especially as a good Nigerians had been questioning how the finances of Lagos are being run. “He should come clear. Does he want us to vote for Tinubu or for him in 2023? Is he not confusing the people? “The pulpit is meant to change the people’s lives and not to lead them to hell, or draft them to politics. Bakare now wants to present himself as a good man and wants both himself and Tinubu to support each other in their quest for the presidency. He does not want Tinubu to see him as being against him what he is doing from his pulpit is bad.” Dr Felix Nwosu, another public affairs commentator, also believes that Bakare was playing politics in his utterances, and has been trying to convince people believe what he believes. According to him, “There may be something he saw in Tinubu today, which he did not see last year. Today, someone may be bad, and tomorrow, he is good. But, as far as I am concerned, I did not see any improvement in the life of the people and in Lagos. “Everything is still bad. I did not see what he saw. Nothing is working because of corruption. Maybe there are some things he knows about Tinubu, which Nigerians do not know. Several men of God have declared themselves as God’s mandate for Nigeria. Maybe Bakare is one of them. He was once a vice presidential candidate. He has been a politician and has always spoken from his pulpit. “For now, he claims he does not belong to any political party. His only platform is his pulpit. That is what he is doing now.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION