It is pertinent to let people know particularly the believers that serving God diligently is fundamental. There are some things people need to know and do them in the process of serving God. These things need to be emphasized to that people can embark on journey with God and see His favour. Some of these things are little but not courageous to allow truth to prevail in their lives and fear God. Anytime temptation comes and the person(s) is not saved, then, he or she will wonder and complain why the unpleasant thing is happening to him or her while he or she is serving God. I want to advise and appeal to people to be prepared, and counting their days and watching their neighbours falling and dying. They should be thinking that they are not strong or healthy than the person that died. Also be thinking or saying the person that died was righteous than they do. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Therefore people should think that they can die within a minute. People should compare themselves with a person that is hale and hearty, no medical history indicating any sickness but stumbled and died. Then let people have in their minds that they can die any moment. Let people be prepared with armour because the owner of life can claim it anytime. If He claims it where are you going? Some people call God but they are not serving God. On the of difficulties God will not answer them. Some people are serving God the way they like and God cannot be served anyhow you like. God need to be served the way HE wants to be served. People need to serve God when it is convenient and not convenient. Lagos Archdiocese Ordains Four Priests Incarnation, Decarnation And Re-Incarntion (2) The Bible says in 2Timothy 4 : 2 “Preach the word! Be ready in season and out of season….” When it is time to serve God, no problem whatsoever should debar people from serving God. Whether a person is in a pleasant or unpleasant condition, ho or she should serve at the right time so that HE could save the person from a difficult situation. A child of God serves Him when he or she is hungry, af flicted, in sorrow etc. Jesus said in Matthew 10 : 37 – 39 ” He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves so or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he who does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me…” Also a person that loves his wife than Jesus or loves her husband than Jesus is not worthy to be for Jesus. So if a person is experiencing hardship or any of his family(wife & children) is at the verge of death, at the time of service definitely as a person of flesh , the person will prefer to see to the person at the point of death. What Jesus was emphasizing is that serve God first and HE would take care of your sick person. It is difficult for person to abandon sick child and go to serve God. The Bible says in Isaiah 29 : 13 – 14 ” These people are near to me with their mouth and honour me with their lips but their hearths are far from me, their worship of me is made up only of rules and taught by men….” Brethren let your service of God include doing good because a day will come when goodness will not be with you again so that God can stretch His hand of goodness to you. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION