FIRST LESSON “Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, JOHN 11:25-26 and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this?” SECOND LESSON “And fear not them which kill the body, but MATTEW 10:28 are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.” EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! GOLDEN TEXT “ Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in ACTS 7:48 temples made with hands; as saith the Prophet.” The World is populated by means of Incarnation, De-carnation and Re-carnation. As thousands of people die each day, so also are thousands born each day. All human beings had existed in “Spirit Form” only, before they were born into mundane world. WHAT IS SPIRIT? Wrong Association (2) Group Demands For Christian President In 2023 2. Spirits are human-like messengers of God, having neither flesh, blood nor bone. Spirit and Angels are the same. 3. Angels inhabit the celestial planes, while human beings inhabit terrestrial plane. Man without the spirit is mute and negative. Without the spirit, man would be absolutely useless and worthless. 4. We could not talk, walk, eat, sleep, think reason or do any other thing without the Spirit. It is the Spirit that provides the body with all energy. 5. The Spirit is God and without God man cannot do anything. Whether we do good or bad it is the Spirit at work. We do bad things because we do not listen to the Spirit in us; we rather listen to the flesh. 6. When we do good things, it means that we are listening to the dictates of the spirit. The Spirit, who is God, is in all human beings, and all human beings are the image of God. 7. Many people say that there is no God in a person who steals, fight, murder, etc. this is erroneous. The Spirit who is God is in all human beings regardless of whether they are good or bad. 8. Moses, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David, Elijah, Samson, Solomon etc, committed murder, adultery, idolatry, and other sins, are you saying that God was not in these great men? 9. God is in all human beings regardless of whether they are black, white, poor, wicked or good. It is the Spirit that does everything in the world. 10. The Spirit is the still voice in us, while the flesh is the loud voice. Satan works with the flesh and is always at war with the Spirit. If a person decide to kill, fornicate, steal etc, the Spirit that is God will advise him not to do it, and also warn him of consequences if he does it 11. Because of his greed, burning desire and lust, he refuses to listen to the dictates of the Spirit which is God: and then commit sin in order to satisfy the desire and lusts of the flesh; thus yielding to satan. INCARNATION 12. Man had existed in “Spirit Form” before he is born into this mundane world. The Spirit becomes embodied in flesh, and the process is referred to as INCARNATION. 13. Apart from Adam and Eve, all human beings are born through the womb of a woman. We are told that God formed man with the clay form the earth, and breathe into his nostril the breath of life. 14. The significance of that “breath” is, that God dwelt inside dam. Adam was the house of God, and so all human beings are the house of God. 15. We are further told that God sent Adam into a deep sleep and created Eve with a rib from his side. The significance of this “deep sleep “is, that Adam actually died. 16. When he resurrected, that is when a rib from his side was used in creating Eve. It was the same Spirit that Adam had, which caused Our Lord Jesus Christ to re-incarnate as a quickening Spirit. 17. Eve was the first mother on earth. It would have been very easy for God to create human beings in the same manner as He created Eve, but if He did, what would be use of a woman? 18. God created the womb of a woman through which all human beings, Spirits, Angels and God Himself must pass through into this mundane world. 19. Man is the heaven and woman is the earth, therefore all human beings must first pass through the man into the woman; and is then conceived in the womb and be born into the world. 20. It is the Sipirt that actually becomes flesh. The Spirit covers itself with flesh. No one can see the Spirit, and the Spirit does not appear by itself; it is embodied in the flesh. 21. The Spirit, which is God the Father is in all human beings. That is why no one can see God the Spirit. 22. No human being would go out naked, and so the Spirit would not appear on its own in this mundane world. It must first cover itself with flesh and then be born into the world as a human being. 23. THE FATHER IS THE CREATOR AND OWNER OF ALL HUMAN BEINGS, SPIRITS AND ANGELS. EVERY BABY BORN OR UNBORN IS A REPLICA OF GOD. 24. Since God created the womb of a woman for Spirits, Angels and Himself to pass through into the world, you can now realize what grievous sins human beings commit when they practice abortion sterilization and other forms of birth control. 25. There is no place in the Bible where human beings are told to practice abortion and other forms of birth control; and God did not give man authority to prevent anyone from coming into the world. 26. A baby conceived in the womb could be an Angel or God Himself. 27. Remember how Pharaoh tried to kill the baby Moses, and Herod tried to kill the Baby Jesus? They destroyed many innocent children in the hope that they would kill Moses and Our Lord Jesus Christ, during their mass extermination of children. 28. From these examples you should realize that no one should practice this sis of abortion and birth control. These sins ae murders and this is how human beings are challenging god who is the giver of life. DE-CARNATION THERE IS NO DEATH 29. As the giver of life. He is also the taker of all life; therefore, everyone sent to the earth by God has the right to exist, until God takes away his or her life. 30. The Spirit becomes a human being by incarnation. After some time on the earth, the Spirit de-carnates; that is to say, the Spirit is extracted from embodiment of the flesh. 31. Our Lord Jesus Christ said “Fear not him that destroy the body, but rather, fear Him that can destroy both the body and soul”. 32. There is a Greater Being that lives inside every human being; that is the Spirit which is God. The Spiritual element or soul in an is indestructible. Since the Spirit, dwells in man, it means that man does not die because Good cannot die 33. What really happens is that the Spirit is extracted from the body, and is transferred to another place to perform anther duty or assignment. 34. The Spirit comes out, leaving the body or house behind. It is just like a person that takes off his cloths, then walking away and leave them behind him. 35. Many people believe that when a person dies that it is the end of that person. Others believe that after a person dies he will not give account for all the sins he has committed when he was alive. This is erroneous, because his Spirit is still alive and while he was in the flesh.  SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION