The former Governor of Niger state, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu yesterday said part of the challenges facing Nigerian Colleges of Education (COE) is the scrapping of Teachers Training Colleges (TTCs) which produces Grade 2 teachers. In 1977, the National Policy on Education was published indicating the desire to have National Certificate of Education (NCE) to be the minimum qualification to qualify for teaching profession, this accoridng to the former Governor has not answered the many questions bedeviling the sector till date. Former Governor Aliyu who was the Speacial Guest Speaker at the 22nd Convocation & Golden Jubilee Celebration of the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto on Sunday said the problems of Nigeria education system is not about policy making but on implementations. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Avoid Travelling To Stay Safe, WHO Warns Amid Spike In Africa’s COVID-19 Numbers Clergy Urges Nigerians To Intercede For The Country Speaking on the topis: “The Place of Colleges of Education in the Development of Nigeria”, Babangida Aliyu said the topic becomes imperative considering the many challenges that beset the education sector which is exacerbated by the cancellation of TTCs, producing Grade two teachers to fill the lowest cadre of teaching profession. Another issue causing setback to education is that most of the teachers were yet to go digital in line with global best practices, this accoridng to BabangidA Aliyu is to ensure retention of the best teachers to mana the sector, adding that many of the teacing profession are not Information Communication Technology (ICT) compliant. For Colleges of Education to take their proper place in the development of Nigeria; teachers must get proper recognition, education must be seen as a son-quo-non, the foundation for quality manpower development, creator of wealth, the conveyor of successes in life and as well, service to humanity. Babangida Aliyu regreted that lack of formulation of proper education policy befitting for Nigeria also gave rise to the discordant tunes in the sector between the north and southern part of the country giving rise to jetisonning of western education by some misguided elements. Though education remained stunted in the north with the propaganda that Western Education was ‘Haram’ or ‘Forbidden’ as being propagated by the notorious islamic extremist group, Boko-Haram, Babangida Aliyu encouraged northern Governor’s to intensify efforts at bridging the disparity between the region and their southern counterpart. He said, “Northern States have virtually been devastated by the insecurity; North East may take many years to recover from the activities of the notorious Boko Haram that has been on for more than eleven years, killing and maiming innocent people, causing refugee problems and as well Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), villages and towns deserted”. Aliyu who said he is optimistics that with sound education most of the challenges of the north can be surmounted argued that, “When you look at what is happening in the states of Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto and Kaduna in the North West, where armed bandits and the kidnappers hold sway, then you know we are in big trouble, farming opportunities stunted, markets deserted and travelling almost impossible”. “The Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria road, Zaria-Gusau, Zaria-Katsina have now become dangerous to ply, some years back people enjoyed more night travel but all these has become almost impossible today. Some of us travelled on motorcycles to our hometowns on holidays but all these are no longer possible due to insecurity”. “The worst hit at the moment is the North-Central states including Niger which suffers from the spill-over of Zamfara kidnapping and armed banditry activities, the bandits now pick people from their homes. Benue is suffering from the herder’s farmers conflicts while Nasarawa and Kogi recently suffered the problems of adherents of Darul-Salam that was dislodged from Mokwa, Niger state in 2009”. Babangida Aliyu therefore challenged present day leaders at the three tiers of government to, “Pay more attention to the health and education systems, hence ending medical and education tourism outside the country where there is no ASUU strike, no Sales of Handouts and no victimization by unethical teachers”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION