Some groups of farmers have called on the government at all levels to rise to defend farmers across the country, and get them protected against multiple taxes and all other challenges associated with their business. The farmers in a statement signed by its spokesperson Alhaji Bala Abdulkadir, and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT suggested that farmers should be considered for tax relief or in the alternative allow the company income tax and personal tax income remain rather than looking for avenues to send farmers parking through other means of levies. The farmers said multiple taxation is killing their business and if care is not taken agribusiness would soon go into extinction. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The statement further stated that food scarcity is imminent in Nigeria with activities of herdsmen and militants engaging farmers and sending them out of business. “Multiple taxes introduced by some states in the country against farmers are not helping the issue. Agricultural business is hazardous in nature and many of the international communities apply tax relief or exception to their farmers so as to guarantee food security. Bamisil Farms To Change The Face Of Agro-Processing In Ekiti Impact Of Food Scarcity Will Come To Reality Next Year – Olusanya “Part of the challenges militating against farm business includes: weather hazard as in inadequate rain, flood invasion, pest invasion, disease outbreak among livestock among others. But, it is pertinent to note that current cost of diesel and electricity tariff in running farm machineries is not helpful, as this is a burden to farmers on its own. “Tax is supposed to come from farmers’ profit, but now the reverse is the case as the government tries to forcefully generate tax from farmers fund and borrowed fund. In the past, farmers paid company income tax to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). In addition, states collect personal income tax from company’s directors and staff,” The farmers noted that the government also introduced many wages/levies which amount to burden and multiple tax on farmers as they listed them to include; environmental levies and gaseous emission by the ministry of environment. Other bottlenecks according to the statement include; land use charges by the Ministry of Lands, Ministry of Agriculture, and introduction of levies on items and products produced by farmers which also includes: charges on day old chicks, charges on feed, and charges on broilers among others. The stakeholders also alleged that the transport ministry has many operators dealing decisively with farmers transporting their goods which include: V.I.O, Police, traffic police, FRSC, local government contractors /agents and consultants generating all kinds of levies from farmers. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION