Iran says it is ready to indict 48 individuals who it believes are the “perpetrators and masterminds” behind the assassination of top general Qassem Suleimani a year ago in Iraq. The comments came as Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said “revenge… is certain and will be exacted at the right time,” state-news agencies reported. Today, Iran can identify the leaders of the attack, where the attack was carried out from and who gave information about the operation to the US, said Hossein Amir Abdollahian, special aide to the Iranian Parliament Speaker for international affairs. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Soleimani, who headed the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Quds force that specialised in overseas military intelligence and asymmetric warfare, was killed in a US drone strike near Baghdad airport on January 3, 2020. “All the documents needed for issuing the criminal indictment against the assassins are ready,” said Mr Amir Abdollahian, who also acts as the spokesman for the committee to commemorate the death of the general. UN, AU Renew Commitment To Peace In Sudan As Joint Mission Ends Islamic State Claims Responsibility For Wednesday’s Syria Bus Attack “Iran’s Judiciary has been busy during the past year to collect the documents in and out of the country,” he said. They were able, he added, to identify who passed information regarding Soleimani’s travel from Beirut to Damascus and then on to Baghdad where he was killed. He said the indictment would “surely be a deterrent” against further such attacks. In June, Iran said it would execute a man it accused of giving intelligence to the US and Israel that helped kill the top Iranian general. Judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili accused Mahmoud Majd of receiving “large sums” from Israel’s Mossad and the CIA to help plan the assassination. The comments came as Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said “revenge… is certain and will be exacted at the right time,” state-news agencies reported. Today, Iran can identify the leaders of the attack, where the attack was carried out from and who gave information about the operation to the US, said Hossein Amir Abdollahian, special aide to the Iranian Parliament Speaker for international affairs. Soleimani, who headed the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Quds force that specialised in overseas military intelligence and asymmetric warfare, was killed in a US drone strike near Baghdad airport on January 3, 2020. “All the documents needed for issuing the criminal indictment against the assassins are ready,” said Mr Amir Abdollahian, who also acts as the spokesman for the committee to commemorate the death of the general. A year of tensions with Iran – in picturesAn exhibition, calling for an end to executions in Iran, in Trafalgar Square on October 10, 2020 in London, England. The exhibition, held by Anglo-Iranian communities in the UK, marked the World Day against the Death Penalty. Getty Images “Iran’s Judiciary has been busy during the past year to collect the documents in and out of the country,” he said. They were able, he added, to identify who passed information regarding Soleimani’s travel from Beirut to Damascus and then on to Baghdad where he was killed. He said the indictment would “surely be a deterrent” against further such attacks. In June, Iran said it would execute a man it accused of giving intelligence to the US and Israel that helped kill the top Iranian general. Judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili accused Mahmoud Majd of receiving “large sums” from Israel’s Mossad and the CIA to help plan the assassination. Iran also condemned US claims that the targeted killing fell under its fight against terrorism. The attack also killed Abu Mahdi Al Muhandis, deputy commander of the Iran-backed Iraqi militias known as the Popular Mobilisation Forces (PMF), and eight others near the Baghdad International Airport. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammed Javad Zarif said Soleimani was on a diplomatic mission at the time, a claim that US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and other US officials have strongly denied. The US is concerned that Iran will use the anniversary and the final days of the Trump administration to carry out a revenge attack for the killing of Suleimani. On Wednesday, the US flew two strategic B-52 bombers over the Arabian Gulf on Wednesday for the second time this month. The flyover was intended to be a show of force to deter Iran from attacking American or allied targets in the Middle East. US intelligence has detected recent signs of “fairly substantive threats” from Iran, and that included planning for possible rocket attacks against US interests in Iraq in connection with the one-year anniversary, AP quoted a top US military source as saying. The tensions come as Iran’s Cabinet says it will pay out $150,000 in compensation to families of those killed when it shot down a Ukrainian airliner as it retaliated against the US by firing rockets at American troops in Iraq five days after the Suleimani killing. (The National News) SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION