It is not an overstatement to say that consumers in Nigeria have in recent years been groaning under the biting effect of inflation as the fact is incontrovertible. However, going by the Statistics released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) recently, there is an indication that Nigeria’s annual inflation rate quickened for a 15th straight month to 14.89% in November of 2020 from 14.23% in October. According to NBS, it was the highest inflation rate since January of 2018, as food inflation hit a near three-year high of 18.3%, mainly linked to dollar shortages and surging jihadist attacks in farming areas. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! On a monthly basis, consumer prices inched up to 1.60%, the most since May 2017, after to increasing 1.54% in the previous month. The foregoing grim situation is even more glaring when analysed from the fact that Consumer Confidence in Nigeria increased to -21.20 points in the third quarter of 2020 from -29.20 points in the second quarter of 2020. Face-To-Face Sales Techniques Strengthen Relationships With Customers Face-To-Face Sales Techniques Strengthen Relationships With Customers The situation, no doubt, has eroded Consumer Confidence in the country as most products and services are by each passing day becoming unaffordable. This situation was no doubt glaring few weeks to the just celebrated Christmas on Friday as it was challenging for households as prices of major food items increased across major markets in the country, particularly in Lagos State. As gathered by DAILY INDEPENDENT during the period under reference, a big basket of round-shaped tomatoes spiked by 8.3% sold for an average of N13, 000, while a medium-sized basket now sold for an average of N8, 000, indicating 14.3% increase in two weeks. Also, a big bag of dry onions recorded an 18.2% increase in price, and sold at an average of N97, 500. In the same vein, prices of dairy products and cocoa beverages such as Peak, Dano, Three Crown, and Loya milk, Milo, Ovaltine, and Bournvita all recorded significant increase in price across major markets in Lagos State. Little wonder the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) few days to the just celebrated Christmas urged traders and transporters not to hike prices of goods and services to allow every Nigerian participate in the yuletide. Mr Vincent Ezekwueme, the Chairman of CLO in Anambra, made the plea at a media parley on Friday, December 18, 2020, in Enugu on the essence of Christmas. He also called on religious, traditional and community leaders to use the period, which symbolises love, peace and charity, to reconcile warring families, communities and citizenry. However, some of the respondents in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT were unanimous in their views that this is a time when a market economy should be allowed to come to play, saying that it is the market that adjusts prices, depending upon the principle of supply and demand. From the standpoint of the economists, they argued that market automatically adjusts prices and government intervention is not needed. According to those who advocated for the protection of the consumers, when market failure arises, it is normal for governments to intervene. They also agreed that what is happening now is that so many brands in the consumer good market are being sold at exorbitant prices, irrespective of production costs, and added that the worst scenario can be seen in food items across markets in the country. Against the foregoing background, DAILY INDEPENDENT’s checks on markets where household items are sold showed that prices of household items as speculated by consumers at different forum last few days, confirmed a rise by the day. In the same vein, report gathered from Warri in Delta State showed that there was unprecedented price increase across the city as residents went to markets for last-minute shopping ahead of the Yuletide, barely a day to Christmas. According to the shoppers, business activities across markets in the city were characterised by high cost of goods and services. But in spite of the high prices of foodstuff, some residents in the area still managed to come out to the market to see what they can purchase. Conversely, most of the traders expressed dissatisfaction over low sales this year, blaming it on the economic situation, and were unanimous in their views that the situation had negatively affected the sales of goods and services as sales were drastically slow for virtually every foodstuff across the markets. Mr. Kennedy Obiekwe, consumer activist said: “The goal of the CPI is to measure the cost of living and show the effects of inflation on individual consumers”. He opined that the rate as recently released by NBS was not spurious as its accuracy currently reflects across Nigerian markets, saying that the prevailing inflationary rate in the country goes beyond household items. He nostalgically recalled, “The amount of money needed today to buy any given household item would have in the past been used to buy more than two items.” Raphael Ogunmodede, a civil servant in his own opinion said, “As the CPI released by the NBS indicates, it is very glaring that the chances of the consumers in all sectors of the economy making a fair bargain in markets would be dicey”. DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that there is hope for consumers as many experts in their reactions were undivided as they proffered solutions and urged Nigerians to develop an appetite for locally-made products as it remains the only measure to adopt by everyone towards the curbing of the rate of inflation in the country. Albert Onyemelukwe, a consumer in his reaction to the latest CPI recently published by the NBS said: “There is hope for consumers across the country only if they start buying locally-made products.” He concurred that the patronage of locally made goods would no doubt curtail the high demand for foreign currencies and reversed the high inflation trend. Speaking further, he also urged the federal government to stop the importation of fuel to curtail the rising inflation rate, adding that the government should encourage exportation to some extent in order to boost its foreign exchange portfolio. “I understand that a huge percentage of foreign exchange might have been going into the importation of various products instead of the other way round.” Against the foregoing background, he explained that other options abound to re-engineer the economy in this regard, explaining that since Nigeria is an import-dependent and monolithic economy, it was not surprising that the CPI has kept increasing steadily by each passing month in recent years. However, he stressed that the high exchange rate of the Dollar to Naira has for so long remained high to the Dollar in the parallel market, saying that it was one of the reasons that the rate of inflation as measured by the CPI has over the years remained high. He added that the crisis in the North- East had also drastically affected agriculture, which used to be the mainstay of the economy in the zone, with multiplier effects on the other zones. Onyemelukwe said: “Those that were trading in cattle, fish, beans and other produce are no longer doing that because of a lot of people are displaced. In addition, there has been so much reckless spending by among the politicians.” He noted that whenever the interplays are reversed that the consumers would no doubt exude confidence. Professor Stephen Onyeiwu, Don and Chair of the Economics Department, Allegheny College based in Meadville, Pennsylvania, the USA in a presentation some time ago opined that “Nigeria urgently needs a massive economic stimulus programme. If he can summon the energy, Buhari should significantly increase spending in sectors, projects and programmes that boost the economy generate employment and promote inclusive growth. He advised the government to prioritise infrastructure, labour-intensive manufacturing such as textiles and footwear, agro-processing, youth entrepreneurship projects, health and education. Other stakeholders who took the same position were unanimous in their views that “fixing” the economy would no doubt ameliorate the receding inflation and have consumer confidence restored. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION