LAGOS  – Barely two weeks after the Federal Government directed the reopening of four land borders in the country after closure for 16 months, stakeholders in the agriculture sector have advised the government on what it needs to do afterwards. The stakeholders, who spoke in separate interviews with Sunday Independent, said that the government should improve on the nation’s production through the agriculture sector, make waivers for manufacturing equipment and raw materials that are not available in the country. They also said that government’s policies should be relaxed to allow more industries through small and medium businesses to spring up, stressing that agencies such as the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standard Organisations of Nigeria (SON), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), among others, should also relax their policies to raise the economy. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The stakeholders added that the commercial banks, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), should pump money into the agriculture sector as most farmers are folding up their businesses now with no hope of returning in the nearest future. Wale Oyekoya, an agriculturist and the Chief Executive Officer of Bama Farms Limited, said the reopening of four land borders came with mixed feelings, adding that the economic situation in the country requires a holistic approach. Group Distributes Palliatives To Elderly People In Ogun Thespian Excited Over Honey Glow Beauty Word Deal “The President’s action is in order with our nation’s inflation of almost 15 percent and unemployment of over 60 million youths and our foreign reserves that plummeted to less than $34 billion. Our trade with other neighbouring countries is not balanced with the close of our borders.” Oyekoya said that reopening of the borders is in order since the government failed to improve on the nation’s economy. “Our production level has been at the lowest ebb in the last 30 years and that is why every product’s price index has risen over the roof.” He stated that the nation’s economic status shows the weakness of the government to govern the country. “It shows that our governments are clueless to move the country forward. The Covid-19 pandemic and #EndSARS protest also show that our leaders are not competent to deal with crises as they never prepared for them. “Declaration of border reopening will not make any difference because all kinds of unwholesome products still enter the country through our porous borders and smugglers are having a field day while the Custom officers smile to the banks through corruption and manipulation,” he added. He further called on the government to be sincere in the mechanisation of the nation’s agriculture sector and improve on infrastructure. “Money allocated to the national and state Houses of Assembly on constituency projects should be taken away from them as they do not do anything but keep the money for re-election. Government should get refocused to allow citizens to trust them,” he added. Henry Olatujoye, chairman, Board of Trustees of the National Palm Produce Association of Nigeria, stated that reopening of the borders will definitely bring relief to those whose livelihoods depend on businesses around the borders. Olatujoye, however, said the closure of the borders had brought in a new dimension to the country’s foreign policies and made the neighbours to have a rethink about doing business within Nigeria. He thereby wondered if proper security and management networks have been put in place at the borders. Oba Dokun Thompson, the Oloni of Eti-Oni, an expert in the cocoa and chocolate industry, noted that the border reopening should have happened earlier “but good enough, it has been opened now, especially with the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) starting in January.” He said stakeholders are all looking forward to AfCFTA as a boost to trade within Africa as several opportunities will be open for the nation to take advantage of. Thompson stated that Nigeria being the biggest market in the sub-region has a lot to gain with the reopening of the borders. “We are also big in production of a number of agricultural products, such as shea-butter, palm oil and ginger, among others, that have industrial capabilities that can be processed with the intermediary products and moved easily along Africa’s West Coast to create other finished products. “The opportunities that can be derived from the opening far outweigh the negative ones, which is mainly about smuggling of contraband or humans as this can easily be checked or properly monitored with effective control if the government is really interested in achieving that,” he said. However, Ezekiel Ibrahim Mam, National President of Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), said the border was first closed because of the smuggling activities that were heightened, which made Nigeria become a dumping ground with importation of small firearms, thus increasing the security challenges in the country. “Now that the borders are reopened, has the country achieved the desired security? “What measures are being taken to ensure that those banned items such as frozen poultry products, rice and other food items are not smuggled into the country?” he queried. “It should be noted that any country which has no food security cannot be seen as an independent nation. When we open our borders and allow importation of all junks into the country, we are just postponing the evil day. We have the capacity and capability to produce enough for the country and even export. “Our major challenge is capital. Interest on agriculture should not be more than three percent in order to attract more investors into the agricultural value chain and make the products affordable to the general populace. No economy can successfully operate outside the purchasing power of its citizens,” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION