Years ago, while growing up, I was lucky to have been very close to responsible, respectable and renowned elders who I benefitted profoundly from their fertile repositories of uncommon wisdom, knowledge and experience. I remember vividly and with unwavering pride and nostalgia that on several occasions, they warned me to think twice before volunteering to stand as surety for anybody no matter how deep or cordial is the relationship existing between us. They often narrated live stories concerning the ugly or bitter experiences of well-known personalities that had their fingers seriously burnt with regret having innocently stood as surety for some characters they thought they could vouch for in extremely difficult or pitiable circumstances. Many years afterwards, I have not forgotten the useful advice of my elders and their exemplary pathetic stories concerning characters that ended up betraying those that stood for them in court as surety. The dictionary aptly describes surety as someone who makes himself solely responsible for another person’s obligations. To stand as surety for someone is certainly a very delicate and difficult task that should not be done in a hurry in view of the inherent dire consequences, especially if there is eventually any form of default on part of the suspect who in this particular regard, decides to jump bail by fleeing the country. This then quickly brings to mind the unforgettable travails of the duo of Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe and Senator Ali Ndume. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Abaribe, a former Deputy Governor of Abia State and currently Minority Leader of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Ninth Senate, is undoubtedly an outspoken, principled and fearless politician. However, in spite of his fearlessness, bravery and outspokenness, he seemed to have made incalculable wrong move when sometime in 2017, he stood as surety for the notorious leader of the proscribed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB). The visibly disappointed, disturbed and betrayed Abaribe and two other persons had signed a bail bond of N100 million each as sureties for Nnamdi Kanu who had later probably without their knowledge, fled the country. In view of the sudden or unforeseen circumstance the trio had found themselves, they risked forfeiture of their N300 million bail bond if they failed to produce Kanu in court on the next adjourned date which had since lapsed. For instance, the court had asked Abaribe to choose one out of three options since Kanu had failed to report in court on October 17, 2017 as earlier ordered. Before volunteering to stand as surety for Kanu, did Abaribe ever think the young agitator who barks but cannot bite could jump bail, thereby putting him in embarrassing situation that made him have sleepless nights? Did the ranking federal lawmaker bother to consider the unenviable antecedents of Kanu before agreeing to stand for him as surety? If Abaribe had painstakingly and without sentiments done thorough background checks concerning actual character, deeds or misdeeds of Kanu, the indelible bad light in which he was portrayed while the saga lasted would have been averted. By the way, since Kanu is yet to be produced in court and the next adjourned date had since passed, why has the judge not ordered arrest of those that stood as sureties for him? How Poor Are Nigerians? Pantami’s Worrisome Autocratic Mannerism This has become necessary in view of recent court order that ranking Senator from Borno State, Ali Ndume, of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), be remanded in Kuje Prison. Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court in Abuja directed that Ndume be remanded in prison having reportedly failed to produce the embattled former Chairman of defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, in court. Maina who was arraigned in court on October 25, 2019 on a 12-count charge is being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in respect of allegations of money laundering, abuse of office and fraud. Following his failure to meet his bail conditions after cooling his feet in prison cell for almost six months, Ndume stepped forward to stand as surety for him with a proviso to cough out a whopping sum of N500 million into coffer of the Federal Government if Maina jumped bail. As many had expected, he jumped bail, thereby putting Ndume who stood as surety for him, in agonising predicament that lasted several days. While granting him bail, in the amount of N500 million with one surety in the like sum, the court had directed the surety must be a serving Senator with ownership of property worth N500 million in Abuja. In-line with his seemingly absurd character, Maina, after being released from prison, failed to appear in court on four uninterrupted occasions, thereby further placing Ndume’s fate in jeopardy. His lawyer, having failed to provide the court tenable reason for his client’s inability to appear in court as scheduled finally informed the court of his withdrawal from the case since according to him, Maina had defaulted in payment of his legal fees. As expected, the court found it unacceptable when Ndume disclosed he could not find Maina after he was granted bail. Maina had betrayed Ndume who stood for him as surety. Known for his principled antecedents and unswerving stance on serious matters no matter whose ox is gored, Justice Abang ruled on November 23, 2020 that Ndume be remanded in prison pending when he would fulfil his bail bond which in this case, is forfeiture of the N500 million to the federal government that the court also empowered to sell the Senator’s Asokoro property so as to recoup the N500 million bail bond. Ndume’s pitiable plight became compounded when Abang emphatically stressed that condition under which he would regain freedom from Kuje Prison was when he pays the bail sum to federal government or if the prosecutor succeeds in selling the palatial property and makes payment to government. Maina has unenviable record of jumping bail but this did not deter Justice Abang from commencing trial. Consequently, he ordered that despite the belief in some quarters that the suspect had fled the country, his trial in absentia must commence on November 24, 2020. However, some measure of relief must have come the way of Ndume when he learnt on December 3, 2020 of extradition of Maina back to Nigeria from the Republic of Niger by the Garba Umar-led Nigeria Police Force in conjunction with INTERPOL. If Maina was still at large, Ndume would remain in Kuje Prison since conditions under which he could regain his freedom would either be if Maina is found or his (Ndume’s) property is sold to recover the N500 million bail bond. Hopefully, it is strongly believed that Ndume has learnt a lot from his travail over Maina’s case and would certainly double check or think twice before throwing his hat into the ring in order to stand as surety for a suspect. To avert another possible escape, Justice Abang, realising that if somebody has been bitten once, it is in his interest to be twice shy, he should not for any reason, even if the “pressure is from above”, grant Maina another bail. There is likelihood that since he is believed to be highly connected in appropriate quarters, he could easily jump bail again, thereby ensuring prolongation of his ground-breaking case that has led to unending mourning in households of millions of pensioners that his alleged money laundering, abuse of office and fraud have been denied payment of their pensions. Due to seriousness of his case, everything must follow due process to ensure justice is not miscarried. If he thinks the crime was not committed by him alone, he should be provided conducive environment to name names of collaborators, especially if he thinks it would be foolish to get drowned alone while co-travellers-in-crime are smiling to the bank. Travails of Abaribe and Ndume should be a lesson to others. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION