Members of Tombel community in Douala, Cameroon have commended Dangote Cement for complementing government’s efforts in the provision of road infrastructure in their communities, as part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). According to members of the community, constructing new roads does not just create access but opens up the economy and improves the well-being of the people. With new communities accessing new markets, the number of people living in poverty reduces. Tombel, Enongene Bazie Ebong, Deputy Mayor, in his remarks, explained that the development of a 5km road in topography with loose soil, has not only opened up the economy but also reduced the number of out-of-school children in the community. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “The municipality appreciates the various initiatives of the company. It is one thing to make a demand; it is another for such to be approved. Tobel-Loum road has long been deplorable. Addressing this concern has aided the growth of businesses and the economy of the municipal”, he added. A resident, Aobe Yvette who has been living in the community for over a decade, said to commute has become easier for residents, while congestion in the town has reduced, as many are able to live and work within the community. Nigeria Lost 5.504MW In One Month To Weak Transmission Network, Dearth Of Gas – Report NDPHC To Consolidate Generation With 2000MW, Revamp Four Plants Community Leader, Menoh Moses, noted that the construction of the road has helped the community to develop, even as he asked for continued intervention in the states. To the Isokolo Market in Limbe II Council, Dangote’s intervention through the provision of stalls and toilets in the market place has no doubt helped to address logistics challenges among traders, as well as improved trade activities. According to a beneficiary, Mrs. Etuka, the intervention has helped to bring stability to her family after many months of being displaced from their home. “Accessing the stall has helped to bring stability to my family and put us back on our feet. The unrest in the country has pushed us out of our homes, but the stall has helped us to get some daily living”, she added. On his part, Batoke Chief, HRH Molungu Otto Molive, stated that the partnership forged between the community and Dangote Cement has been sustainable with each party fulfilling its agreement. “We have a Memorandum of Understanding on the things that we believe would be of benefit to our people. Under the agreement, 80 children in the community are enjoying scholarships from the company, while some of our youths are gainfully employed at the quarry. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION