…Says ‘He Was Away On Errand When Agreement Was Made’ IBADAN- A group of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) members in Oyo State, Oyo PDP Like Minds has warned the Chairman, Oyo Pacesetters Transport Services, Dare Adeleke not to discuss PDP issue in public again, in order to further escalate the crisis in the party. The group said, Dare Adeleke is very naïve of what had happened between the PDP leaders at the state and the zonal level, so made it very embarrassing hearing him discussing what he never knew of. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Oyo State, Oyo PDP likeminds frown at a recent statement made by Dare Adeleke where he said there was no an agreement between Govermor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and party leaders, to allow Eddy Olafeso return as Zonal Chairman of the party if he failed at the governorship race in Ondo State. Statement reads, “We will like to implore Oyo state PDP chieftain and leaders to call Dare Adeleke to order as regards to ongoing crisis in our party before he will use his inexperience, naïve and eye service actions to escalate the issue.” Lawmaker Distributes Food Items To Over 3000 Constituents, Fetes Children For Christmas Group Says Opposition To A Sole Administrator For NDDC, Self Serving “With Dare Adeleke recent outburst, it has shown that, he is a Leprosy man who can produce Milk for people but ready split the Milk when it produced by another man. We knew him to governor Makinde ally and needed to to be praising his master after appointed him as Chairman at the Mechanic Village but it is ridiculous and unacceptable to be discussing a a meeting he was not part of.” “The said meeting was held on 11th and 12th of March this year in Ibadan with a keynote address made by governor Seyi Makinde.” “According to his statement at the meeting, he said Eddy Olafeso led Zonal Executive performed extremely well and still believe in their competency. It was at the meeting all leaders and state chairmen of the party in the South-West agreed and all support Olafeso to contest and that if he did not win the primary, he will be allowed to return as the Vice-Chairman in the South-West.” “It is pertinent to ask Dare Adeleke who was far away from the venue of the meeting where he got his own resolution of the meeting?” “We will also like to ask Dare Adeleke to state his importance and usefulness in Ward, Local government, state and zonal level of our party, PDP?” “It is a pity a low life personality like Dare Adeleke will be tongue lashing Ex Ekiti state governor, Ayo Fayose whom his achievement at state, zonal and national level is unmatched by his pay master.” “If only Dare Adeleke want to find a way yo secure his appointment, he shouldn’t be using some party sensitive issues a public topic, even if there is anyone from Oyo state to comment about the meeting held, it suppose to be governor Makinde, he should be the one to come out and deny if there is no truly agreement as said by Adedeji Doherty, Chairman PDP Lagos.” “Will will like to tell our dear party leaders and members to kindly henceforth always disregard any statement made by Dare Adeleke concerning our party. He is nobody but an opportunist who got an appointment through back door.” “If not for Chief Bode George who begged governor Makinde severally before he was given the Chairman, Oyo Pacesetters Transport Services appointment, he will still continue to be a political liability and beggar, even governor Makinde knew Adeleke has no electoral value, he is only a vulture who eats from dead bodies.” “More so, we will like to ask Dare Adeleke to go back to his Ward 1, in Ibadan Southeast to go and fight for political relevance before he can talk to Fayose, who has been in political limelight before he (Adeleke) got his first appointment under Ex governor Akala.” “Very pathetic that, Dare Adeleke who has no value and unmatched with heavy politicians like Ambassador Arapaja, Akeem Ige, Kayode Fagunwa, Hon. Inakoju and others in Ibadan Southeast will be using affairs of our zonal party to be in the good book of governor Makinde”, the statement concluded. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION