ABUJA- The House of Representatives on Monday resolved to carry out a comprehensive investigation into a N19.2 billion Railway Rehabilitation contract awarded to Msrss ESER Contracting Industry Company Incorporated in 2011. To this end, the House also resolved to set up an adhoc committee to immediately commence the investigation with a view to uncovering circumstances surrounding the non implementation of the said contract almost ten year after. The resolution as contained in a motion of urgent public importance moved by the Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, were premised on the fact that Eser Contracting and Industry Company Incorporated was awarded the contract to rehabilitate the 463km Port Harcourt – Makurdi section of the Eastern Railway line for N19.2 billion in March 2011. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The House noted that the railway rehabilitation work was divided into three sections namely, 463km port Harcourt- Makurdi track, 1016km Makurdi -kuru track and 640km kuru – Maiduguri track and the three sections were awarded to three different companies. According to the motion, “there are allegations that while carrying out due diligence on Eser Contracting and Industry Company Incorporated, it was discovered that the company was not in existence as it was not duly registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), as required by the Procurement Act, neither did it have the required tax clearance nor audited statement of account for the preceding three years and therefore had no legal capacity to do business in Nigeria.” PDP To APC: Rein In Your Bandits Now, Nigerians Can’t Cope With Daily Kidnapping, Killings 2020: Gbajabiamila Hails Reps’ Sacrifices, As House Adjourns Plenary To January 26 “The invitation to bid advert for the contract placed in the November-December 2010 edition of the Federal Tenders Journal, the certificate of incorporation was a major requirement listed as one of the criteria needed to bid for the job, but surprisingly, the Railway Corporation, the Bureau for Public Procurement and the Presidency, all brushed aside this requirement in the consideration of Eser Contracting and Industry Company Incorporated for the job.” “The Bureau for Public Procurement (BPP) which is charged with the responsibilities of preventing fraudulent and unfair procurement as well as applying administrative sanctions where necessary, failed in it’s responsibility by issuing a Certificate of No Objection to clear the way for the Railway Corporation to award a job of such magnitude to a company without any legal status. The then minister of Transportations Yusuf Suleiman relied on this certificate issued by the BPP in requesting for approval for the award of the contract from the Federal Executive Council then led by President Goodluck Jonathan.” “That after the contract was awarded in March 2011, the promoters of Eser Contracting and Industry Company Incorporated, knowing that they have deceitfully gotten the contract devised a way to smoothen the irregularities by registering Eser west Africa limited in June 2011, three months after the contract had been awarded and the new company continued dealing with present day government officials without any form of questioning on the sudden change of name.” “The contract is now considered failed and abandoned and there are allegations that the government have gone far with plans to re-award the job to another company without certainties that anyone will be made accountable for the regulatory failures and corporate fraud that characterized the charade.” “If these consistent abuse of procurement laws and incessant corrupt practices by government agents are not put to check, it will continue to ridicule the fight against corruption as canvassed by Mr President and the country brought to disrepute amongst sister nations,” the motion warned. The adhoc committee is expected to turn in its report within 4 weeks of Tue prove for further legislative actions. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION