LAGOS – There is a surge in the patronage of Point of Sale (PoS) service by most Nigerians who have now shunned banks’ Automated Teller Machines in many cities across the country. According to Daily Independent investigations, the reason bank cus­tomers have developed apathy for ATMs is not unconnected with their inability to access their cash when­ever they want to, as many people are often unsure if the ATMs they  visit would dispense cash. The unsavoury develop­ment has somewhat been linked to the crisis that rocked the country during the #End­SARS campaign in which some banks and their ATMs were vandalised and cash looted. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! In a bid to debunk the alle­gation that there is conspira­cy between Nigerian banks and the CBN, coupled with the complaints by custom­ers that the proliferation of agent banking is responsible for ATMs not having money to dispense any more, the CBN has described the allegation as preposterous. CBN’s Acting Director, Corporate Communications, Osita Nwanisobi, said ATMs were introduced to ease the suffering of the people. Unsecured Households Lending To Increase In 2021 — CBN Buhari Vows To Wrestle Inflation Aggressively In 2021 “It is highly preposterous for anyone to say that CBN connived with banks to de­prive people of their money this season. “The primary purpose for which ATMs were introduced is to ease the sufferings of Nigerians and to make bank­ing easier and convenient. I assure the public that CBN will investigate the matter,” he stated. Due to the inability of those ATMs to dispense cash, customers have been left with no other option than to patro­nise agent banking operators, often referred to as PoS opera­tors or service. There is a belief that some ATMs have not been dispens­ing cash due to network is­sues, technical faults, or those vandalised and looted during the nationwide #EndSARS protests. The CBN has promised to investigate the scarcity of funds being witnessed by customers in most ATMs, es­pecially in Lagos State. Speaking with a PoS oper­ator in the Gbagada area of Lagos, Hassan Akinwale, he said many of his customers patronise him because of the banks’ ATMs that are mal­functioning. These days, many people would visit bank ATMs with the hope of collecting money, but they always get disap­pointed with the long queues they are confronted with. The most disappointing aspect is waiting long and not being able to get their money as the ATMs would either re­fuse to dispense cash or with­hold ATM cards. Tobi Adegbola, an under­graduate of Yaba College of Technology, said: “The reason I patronise PoS is because it is time-saving and I am at least 90 percent sure to get my cash. PoS is very easy to access.” He, however, added that in spite of the benefits of PoS, there is also the danger of insecurity as the account details of customers are not very secured. Ayobami Oluyomi, a stu­dent of Ogun State Institute of Technology (OGITECH), Igbesa, also said the reason he uses PoS is because it is easy to access. According to him, “PoS is not stressful, unlike the queues we always witness at ATMs. “Moreover, sometimes the transport fare to and from bank ATMs is more or less equal or even higher than the charges by PoS operators.” Since the #EndSARS cri­sis, many banks have been cautious of loading their ATMs to the maximum for fear of other potential chaos which may turn violent like the previous one. Indeed, many banks were hit hard by acts of vandalism as their ATMs were the main targets by the hoodlums. A visit by Daily Indepen­dent to some banks like Ze­nith, WEMA, and Union in the Obalende area of Lagos, showed the frustration many ATM users face in their bid to make transactions. At a Zenith Bank branch, a customer who identified him­self as Chinedu complained: “If you people are not oper­ating, let us know so that we will not be wasting our time coming here only to discover that your ATMs are not func­tioning. “This is the third time I am coming here this week and hearing the same story that the ATM is under service.” When a security officer at the bank was asked why none of the bank’s ATMs were func­tioning, he simply smiled and said: “You people should try to understand. I think there is still fear of #EndSARs.” The introduction of agent banking in the financial sector is to make financial services available to bank customers in all parts of the country, as well as boost the financial inclusion drive by the CBN. According to the CBN, agent banking is the provi­sion of financial services to customers by a third party (agent) on behalf of a licensed deposit-taking financial insti­tution and/or mobile money operator. A worker with a PoS ser­vice operator in Okene, Kogi State, Miss Mercy Attah, said many people are tired of the long queues at ATMs. “It is like more people now prefer PoS to ATMs despite the higher charges. The num­ber of customers that come here daily for transactions has increased like three times of that of a year ago. “From the look of things, more people patronise PoS than ATMs these days,” she explained. Damilola Ajare, an oper­ator located at Iyana Ipaja, Lagos, told Daily Indepen­dent that he charges custom­ers who collect between N1,000 and N3,000 the sum of N100; N4,000 and N5,000, N150; N5,000 to N10,000, N200; N11,000 to N30,000, N300, and N30,000 to N50,000, N500. Also speaking on the de­velopment, another PoS op­erator who simply identified himself as Adedeji, said his customers pay a N100 charge for the withdrawal of between N1,000 and N10,000; N200 for the sum of N10,000 to N20,000, while those who withdraw be­tween N30,000 and N50,000 pay N300 charge. However, the charges cus­tomers pay for their transac­tions vary from place to place, depending on the level of de­mand and the environment, among other factors. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION