Prof. Itsejuwa Esanjumi Sagay (SAN), renowned constitutional lawyer and Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) clocked 80 years on December 20. In this exclusive interview to commemorate his birthday, he shares his thoughts on the state of the nation. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: How do you feel at 80? That’s a very difficult question. Physically, nobody needs to tell me in terms of reduced physical capacity and agility. I’m prone to all sorts of ailment that are age-related. But in the mind, one doesn’t really age. The time passes and it’s always a surprise but in the mind, I don’t feel the same way I felt 40 years ago. It’s like I’m a youth in my mind but an old man physically. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! What is your view about Nigeria now, compared to your youthful days especially as regards security and corruption? I am not happy at all. Things have really taken a turn for the worse. You can’t compare the two. For example, in my time as a youth, you can travel anywhere. You could drive both in the day and night. In fact, at times, one parks in the middle of the highway with forests all around when one was tired and sleeps off to take fatigue off my body before continuing on the long journey. I did that as a youth when I was driving from Jos to Ile-Ife. Today, all that is gone. The country has become so dangerous. All sorts of things are happening nowadays. You have kidnappers, bandits, Fulani herdsmen, Boko Haram. The reality is that there is nowhere that is safe in the country. Traveling by road today is a very risky endeavour that one will hardly try. So, there is total insecurity in the country. I don’t know what has gone wrong, why our people have become so violent and savage. Individuals no longer feel safe outside his own house. I am not even sure that one is absolutely safe in his own house. Also, there is the issue of corruption which we’ve always had but has now gone progressively worse. This hardly existed at Independence era when we had highly dedicated leaders, politicians who felt that the honour of controlling the levers of powers in this country was their reward, not money. They live modestly and dedicated their lives to serving the country. I talk about Chief Obafemi Awolowo all the time but virtually all the nationalists are like that. They served with diligence and commitment. But all that is gone now, particularly with the coming of the military. We have now come to the age where you acquire public fund in a very reckless and thoughtless manner and amass wealth they cannot use in their lifetime when other people are languishing in misery. That has gotten worse and worse. Progressively and with each new change in governance in our political life, from First, Second, Third and Fourth Republic that we are in now, the quality of men running the republic has seriously degenerated. So, virtually what we have now is about the worst that we’ve ever had in our public life. Many of these present leaders don’t care. All that matters to them is accumulation of wealth without caring about the people who have entrusted them with power. Leaders don’t care about the masses and the masses themselves are not better in the sense that these lack of care for others and corruption goes down right to the very bottom. From top to bottom, nobody cares. Nobody has a sense of respect for the lives and dignity of others. Everybody takes advantage of the other at every level. Prof. Odekunle, PACAC Member Is Dead Insecurity: Onuesoke Tackles Itse Sagay Over Calls For Citizens To Bear Arms Who do you think should be blamed for this decadence? I blame the elites than the politicians and the leaders because they provided an example; they would have been able to enforce that standard and values that they themselves were espousing. If they themselves are practising at the lowest level of values, then there is nobody to control the rest of the society. Nigerians now relate with each other in a dog-eat-dog and survival of the fittest manner and it is really terrible. Still on the issue of insecurity, many Nigerians have said President Muhammadu Buhari deserves blame because the bulk stops on his table as the Commander-in-Chief. What is your take on this? Let me say this, there is a tendency to blame the President, but it is not the President’s fault. I am not a sociologist but the way I see it, it is society developing in the wrong direction. It has nothing to do with the government. Of course, it could have something to do with the level of poverty, unemployment and so on. But you can see that it is everywhere, both in urban and rural. Are Zamfara, Taraba, Yobe not rural areas? We can say that the urban youths are unemployed, what is the excuse of the youths in the rural areas? So, it is as if there is some sort of virus that has simply developed. Truly, the government is overwhelmed because no government will envisage an attack like these from every direction. It’s as if all the miscreants from different genres and denominations have held a conference where they agreed that they should torture and torment the country at the same time. So, it’s difficult and it is not the fault of the government. It is the time that we are in. Any other government would have been in a dilemma over this matter. It’s so overwhelming! We don’t have enough security forces to cope with all these. What advice can you give to the federal government on handling these insecurity challenges, especially attacks by bandits? What I will like to suggest to the government is that they should allow ordinary Nigerians to carry arms. Everybody who wants to carry arms as a form of self-defence should be allowed to do so. This is necessary so that when these bandits and miscreants attack them, they will know that the person they attacked has the capacity to defend himself. All these restrictions on owning weapons should be lifted. Let the generality of the public be allowed to own weapons, especially in all those villages where they are being massacred. Their men should be given weapons so that when the attackers come, they will also be given a challenge which may discourage them in future. We have had causes where bandits attacked villages but the people are powerless to defend themselves. By the time the security agents come in, the attackers had left. They will look for a quiet time and launch another attack. That will stop if the people have the capacity to defend themselves. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION