s a tradition at the end of every year, the World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) a United Nations agency responsible for the promotion of responsible, sustainable and universally accessible tourism, takes a long peep into the coming year and what it holds for tourism and leisure. As the leading international organisation in the field of tourism, UNWTO also promotes tourism as a driver of economic growth, inclusive development and environmental sustainability and offers leadership and support to the sector in advancing knowledge and tourism policies worldwide. In 2021, the organisation says, the important steps undertaken to ensure better coordination and refusing to stand still, are the precursors to prepare for the New Year. It said that 2021 could be a critical year for the restart of tourism, but only “if we continue along this path.” ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The foundations are there for this to be a turning point. It is a moment for directing our sector towards greater sustainability and inclusivity and realizing its massive potential to deliver lasting development and change for all. We cannot waste this chance. “We are almost at the end of what has been the most challenging year in the history of tourism. Almost overnight, the pandemic brought global tourism to a complete standstill. COVID-19: Cross River Suspends 2020 Carnival Calabar, Shuts Down Nightclubs Lifestyle, Culture On Showcase As Runsewe Buries Mother “Millions of people missed chances to explore different places and embrace different cultures and customs. And the world lost out on opportunities for tourism to create jobs, support businesses, kick-start development, and to protect and preserve the very things we leave our homes to see. “However, in the face of such a downturn, tourism ends the year more united and determined than ever. The UNWTO Global Tourism Crisis Committee, created in March soon after the pandemic was declared, recently met for a final time in 2020. “This unique cross-sector platform coordinates international efforts and has proven to be crucial in guiding our response to COVID-19 and informing the measures and tools for mitigating its impact on jobs and businesses. “Notwithstanding new and ongoing developments of the pandemic, the Committee is geared towards accelerating the restart of tourism, always factoring in the most recent situation of global health. “Harmonised, consistent travel protocols are essential for restoring confidence in international travel and getting tourism moving again. UNWTO will maintain the momentum we gained in 2020 into the New Year. “Over recent months, we have made political and business leaders listen and make tourism a part of their plans. We have emphasized the relevance of tourism to almost every part of our societies, most recently amplified through our partnership with CNN and reinforced through high-level, in-person visits to the member states including Portugal, Tunisia, Namibia, Brazil, Uruguay, Egypt, Italy, France, Belgium and Saudi Arabia. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION