President Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration would keep a keen eye on food inflation in the new year, 2021. A statement by Garba Shehu, Se­nior Special Assistant to the Pres­ident on Media and Publicity, also reiterated that a strong directive had been given to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) not to give any money for food im­portation. Speaking at the fifth reg­ular meeting with the Presi­dential Economic Advisory Council held on Tuesday at the State House in Abuja, President Buhari directed that the CBN “must not give money to import food” while noting that “already, about seven states are producing all the rice we need – we must eat what we produce”. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! While taking note of the strides made in agricultur­al production following the Federal Government’s pro­gramme of diversification which discourages over-reli­ance on oil, President Buhari wondered where the country would have found itself by now in view of the devastat­ing economic crisis brought about by COVID-19 if the country had not embraced agriculture. “Going back to the land is the way out. We depend on petrol at the expense of agri­culture. Now the oil industry is in turmoil. Uzbekistan Announces 2021 As Year Of Supporting Youth Top Turkish Court Rules Philanthropist, Kavala’s Rights Not Violated “We are being squeezed to produce at 1.5 million barrels a day as against a capacity to produce 2.3 million. “At the same time, the tech­nical cost of our production per barrel is high, compared to the Middle East produc­tion,” he said. The president emphasised the place of agriculture in the efforts to restore the econo­my but agreed that measures must be put in place to curtail inflation in the country. He added: “We will contin­ue to encourage our people to go back to the land. Our elite are indoctrinated in the idea that we are rich in oil, leav­ing the land for the city for oil riches. “We are back to the land now. We must not lose the op­portunity to make life easier for our people. “Imagine what would have happened if we didn’t encourage agriculture and closed the borders. We would have been in trouble.” The meeting, which was conveyed to review and re­flect on the global and domes­tic economy in the outgoing year, was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, as well as Ministers of Finance and Humanitarian Affairs. In specific terms, the meet­ing noted the sharp deterio­ration in the international economic environment and its impact on Nigeria’s con­tinuing but fragile economic recovery. It was concerned that Ni­geria’s economic growth has continued to be constrained by obvious challenges, in­cluding infrastructural defi­ciencies and limited resourc­es for government financing. It emphasised the need to make the private sector of the economy the primary source of investment rather than the government. The meeting reviewed the progress towards structural reforms in response to the economic crisis, including the institution of the Eco­nomic Sustainability Plan, the changes in electricity tariff, fuel pricing regime, the partial reopening of land borders, the movement towards unification of ex­change rates and budgetary reforms through Finance Bill 2020 and 2021. It agreed that to prepare the country for the challeng­es ahead, it is imperative to ensure macro-economic sta­bility, create certainty, and rebuild investor confidence in the economy. It emphasised the need to deepen structural reforms initiated by the administra­tion as a basis for stimulating investments from domestic and international sources with a view to raising pro­ductivity in key sectors of the economy. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION