IBADAN – Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, EndSARS Protest, the Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) has declared that it has recorded 95 percent projects’ completion. This disclosure was made by the Executive Chairman of the Board, Dr Nureni Adeniran, while briefing Journalists on how far the Board has in the year 2020. Adeniran, who doubled as the Chairman, Southwest Universal Basic Education Board, said the COVID-19 pandemic was not an excuse for him and his associates, which made him and the Board to ensure that education is seen as a tool to fight poverty in the state as well as making sure that basic amenities are provided for both the teachers and students in Oyo State. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He said, “When we came into the office, we have plans and we ensure that we put in efforts to achieve this. “To the glory of God, we awarded 5 model schools, 15 blocks of classrooms, we have 59 renovations done across the state as well as providing schools with chairs and tables for both the teachers and students. David Mark, An Incurable Nationalist – Bauchi Gov Unknown Gunmen Kill Middle-Aged Man In Benin “We also equipped them with sports equipment and to the glory of God, I can tell you that 5 model schools we awarded are completed and we only gave them out this year and we ensured that all hands are on deck to deliver these projects along with the completion of the borehole. “We also equipped schools with farm equipment to farm most especially on Animal husbandry and Poultry farming. Students are exposed to this to build ahead the future and prepare them to be financially stable and also to help them grow the Agricultural sector of the country. I am bold to say that we have 95% projects completion of all awarded projects given out.” “Despite having a lot of projects inherited from the previous administration, we are focused to deliver. We inherited 54 projects from the previous administration and by the grace of God, we were able to complete 41 projects so far despite the Covid 19 pandemic. “The administration of Engr Seyi Makinde is the government of all and that is why we didn’t terminate contracts awarded by the previous administration despite the fact that they awarded a lot of projects and they were unable to complete many but we took it on ourselves to ensure that we complete the projects. “We also took it upon ourselves that the previous administration didn’t pay the counterpart funds early to ensure the projects completion but the administration under Engr Seyi Makinde has been paying the counterpart funds to ensure we give out projects and ensure completions” “We have lost many teachers to retirement, death and some seconded to secondary schools to primary schools and we must replace them. “We are already doing underground works as I can assure you that Oyo SUBEB recruitment will commence by the first quarter of the 2021.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION