Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has said that in the face of the current situation confronting the nation, devolution of power from federal government to states and local governments is the way to go. Obasa, in an End-of-the Year message he delivered after the passage of the 2021 budget by the House, noted that “it is expedient to alert the government of the day at the federal level that for a desperate situation as presently experienced globally, appropriate and prompt measures need to be taken to find lasting solutions to some of our challenges as a nation. “For instance, at a time like this, we should be harping more on restructuring. Nigeria is made up of diverse ethnic groups which have similar goals of moving Nigeria to the next level but at times have different ideas on how to achieve it. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “No doubt, centralisation of power at the Federal level as it exists currently in Nigeria is not the most ideal approach to accomplish genuinely necessary rapid development. Devolution of power from the federal government to state and local governments is the way to go,” he said. The Speaker further noted that it is obvious to all and sundry that the Federal government is simply too far away from the masses and cannot cover the whole country in an effective manner. Nursing Mother, 3 Others Killed In Separate Accidents In Delta Female PoS Operator Disarms 2 Armed Robbery Suspects In Edo “There is an in-built limitation on what a government so far away from the people can achieve. People in each locale know their area far better than a federal minister or president located in Abuja. “So far, we have seen clusters of development around localities where new states are created which bolsters the argument that development happens faster when government is brought closer to the people. “Rapid development will occur if decentralisation is carried out provided the current level of corruption in Nigeria is brought to the barest minimum,” said Obasa. The Speaker explained that presently, item 39 of the Exclusive Legislative List gives the Federal Government the sole and exclusive power to legislate on mines, minerals, including oil fields, oil mining, and natural gas. He stated that “at this stage of our existence as a nation, we should be more concerned about the Federal Government’s persistence on the sole proprietorship of the natural resources domiciled in the states controlling the resources of this country through this curious Exclusive List. I believe that an ideal thing is for the Federal Government to devolve to the states some of these powers. “For the umpteenth time, the need to address some of our security challenges through the formation of state police is very urgent. “It is gratifying to note that the Amotekun security outfit formed in the southwest is working assiduously to address some of the issues in their own little way. “But with the full support of the federal government by allowing each state to manage its own police, I’m very well sure that it will go a long way to curb insecurity all over the country. “If we truly practise federalism, it is of utmost importance that we allow the devolution of powers, which is its key element. “As such, the Federal Government should endeavour to shed weight by transferring some items in the Exclusive Legislative List to the Concurrent List to enable states have direct responsibility on state police, community police and prisons among others. “Permit me to emphasize it here that devolution of power does not mean disintegration of Nigeria. Rather, decentralisation or devolution of power from federal level to the state and local levels will spur rapid development in Nigeria like we have never seen before,” he added. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION