LAGOS  – The insecurity in the country is becoming worrisome and Nigerians from different ethnic, religious and political divide have expressed concern over what they described as nonchalant posture of President Muhammadu Buhari to the killings and general insecurity in the country. According to them, the most disturbing aspect of it is that the President has refused to relieve the service chiefs of their jobs. It will be noted that the call for the sack of the service chiefs is coming not only from members of the opposition party, but also members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have joined to call for sack of service chiefs, and the overhauling of the security architecture. An interfaith group under the aegis of National Coalition of Interfaith Group of Nigeria (NCIGN) decried the nonchalance of President Muhammadu Buhari to rejig the nation’s security architecture irrespective of growing insecurity in the country. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The group particularly said it found the president’s inaction over sack of service chiefs and implementation of some far-reaching resolutions of the National Assembly on insecurity very disturbing. To this end, the interfaith organization, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Sheikh Mohammed Ibrahim and Co-Coordinator, Bishop John Adebayo, reeled out six prayer points for Nigerians of all faith to take before God in prayers for intervention in the security problems. 2020: Gbajabiamila Hails Reps’ Sacrifices, As House Adjourns Plenary To January 26 Seek God For Solution To Nigeria’s Challenges, Okowa Urges Nigerians While stating that the issue of security of life and property was “deteriorating on an hourly basis”, the group decried “Mr President’s deliberate refusal to act according to the demands of Nigerians.” “We found President Muhammad Buhari’s inaction over the sack of the service chiefs and other recommendations on security very disturbing and abnormal hence, we passionately appeal to Nigerians of all faith all over the world to take one hour of their days starting Wednesday, December 16, 2020 to pray for God’s intervention”, it said. “We issue this statement to state our position on a pertinent national issue that has become embarrassing to our dear country and which has put us to shame even among our immediate brothers in the west African sub region. We have become a laughing stock even among smaller nations that used to depend on us as big brother. “It is the issue of security of life and property which is deteriorating on an hourly basis, and Mr President’s deliberate refusal to act according to the demands of Nigerians. “As people in the active service of God from all faith and denominations, we have cogent reasons to believe that fervent prayers seeking the face of God can restore peace in our dear country,” it said. Still on the same page, the Northern elders expressed concerns on the worsening security situation in the region, saying that the attack on Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, in Katsina State, had further confirmed their position that the region was now at the mercy of terrorists, bandits and other criminal elements. Subsequently, the elders reiterated their earlier call on the President, Muhammadu Buhari, to seek foreign help, saying any further delay by the president may lead to extinction of the region following increasing mass killings of its people by the terrorists. The elders coming under the aegis of Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development, pointed out that the continuous stay in office of the service chiefs whom they noted, have been exhausted with nothing more to offer in security service, was emboldening the adversaries in their increasing dastardly actions against the country. The group in a statement signed by their National Coordinator, Engr. Zana Goni and National Women Leader, Hajiya Mario Bichi, the elders condemned the attack on the school children, saying the development that came few days after the decapitation of over 46 rice farmers in Zabarmari Village in Borno State, was disturbing. Besides, the northern elders reiterated their call to the president to sack the service chiefs and reorganize the entire security architecture, adding that the firm positions of the two chambers of the National Assembly to this effect be respected by the president. “The latest attack on Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, in Katsina State, where over 333 children are reportedly missing has further confirmed our position that our region is now at the mercy of terrorists, bandits and other criminal elements. “And as a result of this, we strongly believe that time has come for our president to bring in fresh hope and clear directions on how best the country will strategize to overcome the present insecurity situation in the country in general,” they said in the statement. Insisting that the service chiefs have lost the support of human, nature and spirit and also exhausted their energies, ideas and capacities hence can no longer turn around the country’s security for good, the northern elders charged the president to see reason with a majority of Nigerians who are of the view that the nation’s top security heads be relinquished of their positions and fresh hands and ideas injected for positive results in the security of the nation. They reminded the president that in democracy, the voice of the majority prevails, saying the recent resolution of both chambers of the National Assembly that he replaces the services chiefs, was the view of the majority of Nigerians, given that the parliament is a representation of the people. “Our president was elected by Nigerians and the same Nigerians have spoken through their representatives in the National Assembly. Our president should listen to them by dropping the service chiefs, who have since reached retirement age in the military and appoint new ones with fresh ideas to do the job for which we elected him to do,” the statement read. While insisting that the president listened to what they called “the voice of the people” by reorganizing the security architecture of the country, the elders said: “The time has come when the entire country expects new ideas, philosophy and method in the fight against insurgency in the country.” Even members of the ruling APC are no longer comfortable with the way the President has been handling the issue of security, the All Progressives Youth Forum (APYF) charged President Buhari to show empathy to victims and citizens, expressing concern about the resurgence of insecurity and the general lack of safety in Nigeria. In a press statement signed by Muhammad Abdullahi, the Publicity Secretary of APYF, said that it was not unaware of the efforts being made by the government, chief among which was the arrangements to acquire fighting equipments to aid the efforts of the gallants soldiers. The statement read, “We also acknowledge that quite a number of behind-the-scene efforts are being made, which of course cannot be disclosed due to the need to protect national security information. However, while the government may be certain that efforts are ongoing to address all identified security challenges confronting the nation, some actions on the part of principal government actors, especially Mr. President, are showing a debilitating lack of enthusiasm and not very reassuring to the generality of citizens.” The group maintained that as foot soldiers of the party who on daily basis defend the actions of the Buhari government both online and offline, it had become difficult and frustrating for them to defend some certain dispositions of President Buhari, especially towards victims of insecurity. “We do not, for instance, find it agreeable that Mr. President who traversed the whole of Nigeria to ask for votes just last year could not spare time to visit Kankara in his native Katsina State, where a yet to be ascertained number of students have been abducted by suspected terrorists; even at a time he was readily available in the State. We, indeed, understand that Mr. President is in Katsina on a private visit, but a father of a nation should know that private moments pale into insignificance when the safety and well-being of his people are threatened.” The statement said. The APYF said it would love the President to be more empathic towards those who are in the receiving end of the security problems confronting the nation, because it’s by so doing that he would have displayed the genuineness of intention that would enlist the patriotic support of the entire citizenry to queue behind the government and offer their support. Comrade Isah Abubakar, President Northern Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) blamed the rising insecurity in the country on the fact that criminals, like Boko Haram, bandits are taking advantage of weak government to perpetuate evil. Abubakar maintained that President Muhammadu Buhari has failed Nigerians and has disappointed the citizens who voted him into power. He said that it was unfortunate that President Buhari as the commander in chief of the Armed forces is not in charge of leadership. He must sack the service chiefs now.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION