Senator Dino Melaye, former lawmaker who represented Kogi East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, was a guest on ARISE TV where he spoke on the security situation in the country. He opined that President Muhammadu Buhari has failed in his sworn oath to protect the lives and property of the citizens and therefore should resign in order to allow competent hands to secure the country. AKINWUNMI KING, who monitored the interview in Lagos, brings the excerpts: As a former member of both chambers of the National Assembly, what is your take on President’s Muhammadu Buhari’s refusal to honour the invitation of the House of Representatives? I will start by saying that it is ridiculous that the Attorney General of the Federation or any lawyer will actually support the wicked stand that the national assembly lacks the powers to summon the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. That to me is very ridiculous and unacceptable. One would say this is not the first time the president is disobeying the Constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria. For example, Sections 217, 218 and 219, have said that the president cannot carry out the operational use of the armed forces without the approval of the national assembly. In fact, specifically, section 219(b) is very specific in that regard. One will now be very surprised to see that all these actions were taken without the approval of the national assembly. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! You should also remember that the president had initially agreed to appear before the national assembly. What is the president afraid of ? Some people are going to boo you, some people are going to mock you, that is completely irrelevant, it does not have any hold constitutionally or any extant law in our country. The power of the national assembly to summon is sacrosanct, undebatable and this is the first time I am hearing this. Trump, as cantankerous as he is, he was invited by the US Congress and he appeared before them, so if you have nothing to hide and there are no clandestine or ulterior motives, there is no reason why the president will not appear before the members of the national assembly to explain or answer questions from the members. Senator Balogun Charges Youths To Engage In Politics PFN Backs Kukah On State Of Nation, Says He Shouldn’t Be Used As Sacrificial Lamb You are president and you are elected to serve and I remember that the president had the Quran and the Constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria on his left and he swore to uphold that Constitution and today, it is regrettable that this is happening and I hope the national assembly will exercise their powers, I hope the Speaker of the House of Representatives will go to court and ask the court for interpretation on this very particular issue. But it is disgraceful and unacceptable in any democratic clime. What do you think of the argument that this came about as a resolution of the House and that a resolution is not backed by any binding force. So if the president has exercised his discretion, are we not just raising moral issues? It is not true, there are no moral issues here and even if you are talking of morality, the president should on moral grounds, respect the institution of the national assembly as a democrat to respond to their clarion call. Section 88(1) of the 1999 Constitution gives the national assembly powers, by resolution published in its journal or official gazette, direct or cause to be directed an investigation into any matter or whatsoever, so there is no ambiguity at all. It is just because we have irresponsible leadership, what is the essence of national assembly as an independent arm of government? We have been talking about separation of powers, is it right for any president in a democracy to ridicule the institution of the national assembly? And unfortunately, the national assembly has not done what they are supposed to do. Unfortunately, some of us are not there to make sure that this institution is not ridiculed or rubbished by the executive. I have said this several times, I am not saying the national assembly should be an enemy of the executive but they are by design not supposed to be friends. Any day you see an account and an auditor becoming friends, then fraud is about to take place. So the national assembly has been conditioned legally and constitutionally to check the activities of the executive including that of Mr President. If you say they have no power of summon, then what is their constitutional role? Even morally speaking, no responsible president has the power to decline invitation of the national assembly, not to talk of being empowered by the provision of Section 88(1) of the 1999 Constitution. That section is not written in Okun or Fulani language, it is clear and unambiguous. So I am surprised that lawyers who have gone through law school who understand the letters and words in English, will give some satanic interpretations to that provision. In a proper democracy, it is not acceptable and that is why I say, because of the president’s refusal to appear, what we are practicing in this country is not democracy. It is not the government of the people, by the people and for the people, because the representatives of the people are inviting you and you are saying no. What we are practicing is ‘greediocracy’, government of the greedy, by the greedy and for the greedy. There is no reason why anyone should defend the president, there is no reason why anyone should protect the president, the president as a democrat, as one who was elected by the people, must face the people when they ask questions. This is not only to the national assembly, when last did the president speak to the media? When last did the president engage the media in a question and answer session? You are defending the president from going to commission projects, you are defending the president from going to interact with the media, you are defending him even from communing with citizens that elected him into power. We didn’t elect a president who should remain in the corridors of his comfort in the villa. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus called for the impeachment of the president because of his refusal to appear before the House. Isn’t that heating up the polity over small matter? The president has committed a sacrilegious infringement that demands instantaneous impeachment, so the PDP is not just frivolously asking for the president to be impeached, I am saying that apart from the issue of the national assembly, apart from the refusal to appear before the national assembly, the president has committed array of infractions that he ought to have left that place long time ago. So the call by the PDP caucus for the impeachment of the president is not frivolous. There are concrete constitutional grounds that have been broken, there are concrete by-laws that have been abused and the call for the president’s impeachment ought to have been made a long time ago. If I were in the national assembly, I would have a year ago called for the impeachment of the president. What led to all of this was the issue of security. What do you think the government can do to address the security situation in the country? The truth of the matter is that you cannot give what you don’t have. The president has demonstrated grossly and continuously that he is incapacitated, he doesn’t have what it takes to take us out of the insecurity problem in this country. And shamefully, this incapacitation is coming from a retired army general. And you will recall that the president himself called for the impeachment of Goodluck Jonathan who is a civilian and zoologist, for his inability to handle security matters that were not even this grievous. So now that we have lost absolute control of security in this country, nobody is secured. Abuja, that is the federal capital, they are going from police station to police station, there are cases of kidnappings, robberies and different crimes everywhere. How can the president be in a state and within the perimeter of that state, some people will go to a school and kidnap students? And this is the state of Mr. President, the kidnappers are not even afraid of the presence of Mr. President, it shows that the president has lost complete capacity to solve the problem of security in this country. In this case, the most decent thing to do is to quit, because if you cannot do it, you cannot continue to force yourself to be there. The truth of the matter is that the solution to this problem since the president has no temerity and capacity to fire the service chiefs… in a football pitch, you are using a particular player and he is not giving you results, you must substitute that player. He has played ten matches consecutively and he didn’t score any goal and you are still playing, then automatically, the coach is sick. So what we are saying in essence like I said earlier, is that the president swore before God and man to uphold and defend the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria, and the most potent part of that constitution is the security of lives and property and he has failed grossly, F9 parallel in this regard. So the solution is for the president to leave for people who have the capacity to correct these security challenges to come up. We are not seeing any amelioration, we are not seeing any correction and there is no hope that things will get better. The All Progressives Congress (APC) accused your party of politicising the issue of security in the country and during the End SARS protest, one of the APC spokespersons accused PDP leaders of clandestinely encouraging the protesters. How do you react to these two accusations? I will start by asking which of the APC because they are in factions now. One said he is the chairman and he has gone to court, there is a caretaker committee, so I don’t even know the faction of the APC you are talking about. But in essence, these are cock and bull stories. Is the PDP chairman the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces? Is our spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, the Chief of Air staff ? So in what way are we politicising the security situation in the country. We are saying the bulk stops at the president’s table and if the president has consistently shown gross incompetence in solving this problem, then he should give way to people who have capacity to do so. The Bible says you cannot continue in sin and asks grace to abound. So if capital demonstration of failure has been shown, we should not in the words of former president Olusegun Obasanjo continue to reinforce failure, the only thing is for you to give way for people who have the intellectual and strategy to combat the problem. So should the PDP, because it’s a political party keep quiet when Nigerians are dying? What is our job as an opposition party if not to ask for the corrections of the anomalies? So they want us to keep mute. In an unjust society, silence is a crime; therefore, we are not going to keep quiet. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION