Finally, sanity has prevailed in our university education system with last week’s suspended strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), after over 10 months during which our children were left at home, no thanks to the strike by the academics and the ravaging Covid-19 pandemic. Putting it in contextual terms the education period of these students has been extended by one academic session. For those who would have graduated in 2020, this is no longer realisable until 2021, that is if there is no strike again. One thing is for sure; if the nation places due premium on education this sad development would not have happened in the first place. ASUU and FG face-offs have been long-drawn and sadly there appears to be no end in sight. The sad reality is that those whose responsibilities it is over the years to administer to the needs of the sector have their children either schooling abroad or are in choice universities in the country. So, only the unfortunate ones, who, by the way, constitute the greater population of the people, have their children in our public institutions. ASUU’s agitations, essentially, are understandable because it’s total lack of will-power by successive regimes to give education the required attention and priority it deserves. It is unfortunate that many, who, themselves, enjoyed scholarships and benefitted from solid and well-funded public universities and who are now administrators in government, have all failed in putting the required commitment to lifting our education. In time past, many from other parts of the world, especially from within Africa, took pride at having been educated in Nigeria. Today, our education system cannot attract students even from our tiny neighbours. Seeking solution to this protracted problem only requires willpower and commitment. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! For as long as one can recall, it has been a case of failed commitment on the part of government to keep its side of the bargain each time there is a dispute. It appears that the situation has been worse since the return to democracy in 1999. The attitude of the Federal Government is, sadly, proving that good and quality education is being taken away gradually from the children of the poor. Primary and secondary public schools in Nigeria are systematically being destroyed by the government. The resources paid by public office holders to educate their children in private primary/secondary schools and Ivy League universities all around the world if committed to our local education annually would go a long way to improving the standard of our education. Us Election: No, Biden Hasn’t Won Yet; One More Nightmare Scenario” By   Jeremy D. Mayer” Christmas In A Pandemic It is morally reprehensible that elected public office holders paid with tax payers money would send their children abroad for education while they do not care a hoot about the declining fortunes of our local schools. Truth is that for as long as we fail to fix our education, we shall never attain greatness. The human capital remains the most critical. Unfortunately, it is treated with disdain and so much of lip service. There is need to declare state of emergency on education. It must also be expected that whoever chooses to accept public office must be prepared to educate his or her children in Nigeria to be qualified for such appointments. It is a right of any citizen to choose where to educate his children, but to accept public office, there must be some form of moral commitment on the part of such an appointee to display uberrima fides (utmost good faith) in his social contract with the people. That way we can be sure that education will get the required attention. The decision to suspend the strike is a welcome development as parents heaved a sigh of relief and would be happy to see their children return to school. The union said it suspended the strike while it monitors the compliance level of the federal government to the concessions the government made. Speaking at a briefing at the union’s secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday, the union’s president, Biodun Ogunyemi, said the agreements reached are to be met within January and March 2021, adding that failure to meet the agreements would trigger fresh industrial actions. He said that the suspension is to “give the government the benefit of the doubt” subject to how “truthful” the federal government is to its promises. “What we have done is to give the government the benefit of doubt and that is why we have added the caveat. Should the government renege, our members are not tired of withdrawing their services,” he noted. Now, since the federal government has never been “truthful” and has consistently reneged all these years, it can be concluded that come March next year, or thereabouts, we might as well be back to square one. It is refreshing and satisfying to see the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, vow to ensure that the ASUU does not go on another industrial action. The Minister, who made the promise in an interview last week, said three of his biological children were victims of the strike. “I will not give ASUU the opportunity to go on strike. Because I have three biological children that suffered from this imbroglio that we found ourselves in and about 15 people on my scholarship in Nigerian Universities.” I have particularly not been too keen with the specifics of this dispute, because while it lasted, it was a personal agony for me as a parent whose three children have been left at home rather than being in school for upward of 10 months. To describe one’s experience as agonising is to put it mildly. To fully address this problem there should be steady increase in budgetary allocation to education. It is sad that rather than increase, it is always reducing. In spite of calls for the government to increase funding to the sector, President Muhammadu Buhari’s proposal of N13.08 trillion budgeted for next year, N742.5 billion was allotted to education which is the lowest allocation in 10 years, when measured as a percentage of the total spending plan. That is just 5.6 per cent, the lowest percentage allocation since 2011. The debate about UNESCO’s so-called benchmark percentage funding for the education sector in national budgets at 26 per cent, was contested in 2018 by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, who said the UN agency “told him recently that it never established the controversial benchmark.” Be that as it may, if Adamu considers 26 per cent as unrealistic, then he should know that 5.6 per cent is peanut and a recipe for disaster given the enormity of the crisis we have on our hands after many years of total neglect. It is difficult to put this to dwindling resources when we run the most expensive government around. The cost of running government and overhead cost generally keep increasing, in spite of calls to government to trim its recurrent expenditures. To continue to toy with education is to mortgage the future of the nation. Some day the oil wells will dry up. Only our investment in education will rescue us. Are we ready for this reality? SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION