ABUJA  – Baring last minute hitches, e-Governance module may be implemented by Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), it has been gathered. The administration through the Reform Coordination and Service Improvement (RC&SI) Department has mapped out plans to embark on domestication of Federal Government e-Government Master Plan in the FCT Administration in the month of January 2021. Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, Acting Director of the Department, said the 2021 work plan is aimed at improving efficiency and transparency of Public Service Administration. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! She hinted journalists that the overall purpose and rationale of the project was not only to strengthen the efficiency and transparency of Public Service Administration, but also for proper alignment of automation and digitisation of FCTA activities with National e-Government Master Plan. Ahmadu added that the project would also involve sensitisation workshop on e-government master plan, skills gap assessment and measurement, capacity building on digital literacy and e-government index ranking. How Far Can FG Go By De-Risking Mining Activities In The Country? Any Hope For Abuja, States In New FG Mining Policy? She, however, stated that the department would also embarked on the domestication of Federal Government score-card for websites of FCT Administration and Agencies under the FCTA in the month of February 2021. She further stated that, the scorecard was an important index metric that the national e-government master plan has employed for determining the Nigerian e-government status, stressing that the scorecard was aimed at entrenching transparency and improvement in the delivery of services to the residents of FCT by improving timely and unrestricted access to government information. The department’s work plan for the month of March according to Ahmadu is to skill-up staff of the administration by providing training programmes and development opportunities that expand staff capabilities and minimize skill gaps, adding that improved staff engagement, increased residents satisfaction and optimised staff productivity would also be given the desired attention. Other plans lined up for the months of April, May, June and July include to work with Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) to reintroduce mentoring and succession plan in the FCT Administration, work with BPSR to deploy Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for all Agencies in FCTA, organise workshop on the use of New Media to improve information management in the FCTA and round table discussion on Economic Sustainability plan to support FCTA respectively. She further hinted that the month of August 2021, the department would joined BPSR advocacy on Basic Health Care Fund Domestication of BHCPF implementation plan in FCTA that would assist the administration to benefit from the fund to uplift the standard and condition of Primary Health Care Centers in the FCT, while the department would in the month of September organised workshop on Economic Sustainability Plan as it relates to the administration. Ahmadu stressed that the Economic Sustainability Plan aims to mitigate the effects of deep recession, while ensuring social stability and addressing long-standing economic vulnerabilities as envisaged in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) She also stated that during the month of October, November and December, 2021 the department would engaged public and private sectoral value chain for FCTA under the Economic Sustainability Plan, organise workshop on change management for FCTA Staff and workshop on accessing interventions under the Economic Sustainability Plan and overview of progress made during the year respectively. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION