When about two years ago, precisely on the 14th of November, 2018, we noted that Nigeria is manifesting many of the depressing symptoms of a dying State entity in a piece entitled, “Nigeria: A Nation Sleepwalking into a Debellatio”, a few people thought that it was a little bit alarmist because, in their understanding, Nigeria as an independent sovereign State, has come to stay and that nothing can ever take her out of existence. That was then, as things have changed for the worse since then. Giving what we are witnessing in the country currently, especially the rapidly collapsing economy worsened by Covid-19, the overwhelming level of insecurity and the ubiquitous corruption as well as the anarchism being fueled by the fast-vanishing idea of governmental responsibility and accountability, I truly wonder if their earlier cursory assessment of the candid observations of our ill-fated commonwealth still holds. Truly, the survival of Nigeria ought to be the responsibility of every citizen but that unfortunately is no longer the case because Nigerian citizenship appears to have lost its appeal due to changing circumstances. Firstly, let’s not forget that our forefathers were actually not Nigerians, (strictly speaking, nobody was a Nigerian citizen before 1st of October, 1960) and there is also no guarantee that our grandchildren down shall still be Nigerians in the way that we presently know it down the road, judging by rapidly evolving situations around us. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! With Boko Haram steadily undermining the capability of Nigeria to secure her borders, we are already beginning to see, in spite of the much-touted territorial integrity, how easily a nation can go into both political extinction or constitutional coma if overwhelmed. So there is nothing really sacrosanct about Nigeria’s nationhood; some once great Empires and Dominions have gone into extinction while some greater ones are yet to emerge. The reality is that no nation is established and sustained by mere wishful thinking alone. Instead, nations are formed and diligently nurtured to greatness by people who patriotically subsumed their individual and clanish interests in favour of the larger national interests. Whether or not Nigeria is a healthy country and whether it has the material and conceptual capacities to survive are all dependent on the patriotic desires of all citizens to protect her as prescribed internally by the Constitution, and externally by International Law (the Law of Nations). There is, however, no doubt that many citizens are losing faith in the once enthusiastic Nigerian Project. They no longer trust our security architecture, medical system, schools, public service, etc. and everybody, including top level government officials, are trooping overseas in search of better education, medical facilities, security and even for mundane things like marriages and other insignificant activities. Why the exodus? Our people say that a lizard doesn’t normally run in the afternoon unless its senses danger. How Poor Are Nigerians? Pantami’s Worrisome Autocratic Mannerism The uncontrollable national decline started in earnest when leadership became corrupted through imperfect elections and when mutinous soldiers began shooting their ways into government but with no idea of what to do with the power they have grabbed forcefully. Suddenly political offices became avenues for stupendous ill-gotten wealth, barefaced incompetence and, as a result, things started falling apart while the social and moral values of Nigerians plummeted into an orgy of perversion and corruption everywhere. Following the collapse of discipline in public governance, State gradually drifted away from the Nigerian Nation as represented by the People. It became a captured instrument of oppression. For example, many citizens gradually find it difficult to absorb and internalise the fact that they are still Nigerians because, first, they couldn’t feel the presence of Government in their lives and, second, they do not feel to have been genuinely integrated into the lager Nigerian federation incorporating several separate nationalities on equal terms. People became more and more comfortable with their tribal and ethnic bodies than with Nigeria as a legitimate protective State. There is really no material and civic connections between the inhabitants of the territories comprising the post-colonial State of Nigeria and the government beyond its being a continuation of the oppressive relationship that began with the colonial conquest of their respective nations and kingdoms more than a century ago. There is even the emerging “clear and present danger” situation being actively posed for the Nigerian state as was recently let out rather arrogantly by Governor Bala of Bauchi state. He surprisingly floated an outlandish theory of “Fulani Transnationality” vis-à-vis the British bequeathed Nigerian State. According to him, any Fulani person from anywhere in the world is free to come into Nigeria and assume her rights and privileges as if he were a natural Nigerian citizen. That unilateral conveyance of our collective national citizenship by one ethnic group to their kits and kin from anywhere in the globe unquestionably spells doom for Nigeria and Nigerians alike. It is even more interesting to note that no other country would offer such extraordinary privileges for Nigeria-born Fulanis within their territories. What makes Nigeria the only indiscriminate receiver of alien Fulanis from across the globe without qualms? As far as Bala Mohammed and his ilk are concerned, time stood still for them since the advent of colonialism and the resulting birth of modern states now holding suzerainty all across Africa. The fact that we have Arabs in several middle-Eastern countries does not give them automatic, for example, citizenship rights across those separate modern states. Never. Every day, we see trailers-load of alien human cargoes flooding into Nigerian cities from all over Africa who are ostensibly enabled by Gov. Muhammed’s extravagant theory of Fulani “border-less-ness” in furtherance of their pastoral nomadism. How can Nigeria survive as a State under such an invasional situation? A country without a secured border cannot, with distinctive nationals, fulfil the full duties of a sovereign State under International Law because boundaries are what differentiate countries from one another even if their various citizens are of the same ethnicity or race. There is also a rapidly declining trust between government and the citizens. This trust deficit came into bold reliefs during the #ENDSARs nationwide protests. Meanwhile, some of us “Buharistas” are today feeling guilty and, indeed, ashamed that we lent him a great deal of support on the (mis)understanding that he was coming with a pro-talakawa progressivism under a supposedly “progressive” party. Sadly, it has turned out not to be exactly what we thought. While the ongoing economic hardship is global and largely externally instigated, it is however quite obvious that Nigerians are suffering more than their fair of the hardship due to the government’s inability to rise up to the challenges of the time. Nigerians have increasingly grown used to not relying on the government because government has repeatedly failed to observe its own side of the bargains contained in the Social Contract made during campaigns; such abdication poisons the relationship between the government and the governed. The people have necessarily taken their fates into their own hands, turning themselves into one-man municipalities for their amenities, raising private garrisons in the face of government’s failure to fulfil its constitutional responsibilities to secure their welfare and security. “If today Nigeria is universally adjudged to be a bazar-like theatre of anarchy, jinxed, retarded and symptomatic of a quivering State order where nothing works as expected, then, we, as citizens, ought to, at the very least, be able to tell ourselves when and how this debilitative rot began. But papering over yawning cracks, like the ostrich, deceiving ourselves with a delusional expectation of divine intervention, is to foreclose our fast-declining opportunity of redemption, thereby unwittingly returning us to the Hobbesian State of Nature where life was necessarily “nasty, brutish and short”. Just as Benjamin Franklin told his fellow Americans at Independence, “you shall have a Republic, if you can keep it”. In the same vein, Nigerians shall only have a Republic if they can keep it but that is the trillion Naira question which everybody is dodging. Esteemed reader, what a terrible year 2020 has been; Covid-19 with its political, economic, social and domestic dislocations. Stay safe and Happy Survival! See you in the New Year! SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION