Nigeria is going through one of toughest security turmoil, the kind that has never been witnessed before even during the Nigeria civil war. As hundreds of people are killed everyday and many others kidnapped for ransom, the leadership of the military and other security agencies are daily reproached and even asked to quit or be sacked. But is their sack the only elixir to the problem? ROLAND OGBONNAYA writes Nigeria is no doubt going through one of her worst insecurity challenges in re­cent time. It’s so bad that a day without killings and kidnappings has become news in itself. From east to west and north to south the country is under siege by Fulani herdsmen, ban­dits, kidnappers and diverse terrorist groups. What baffles observers and some Nigerians is the boldness with which the bandits and terrorists operate with little or no challenge from the security agencies, especially the military. As a result of the apparent inability to cur­tail or defeat the insurgents, Nigerians have continued to upbraid the service chiefs with some severally calling for their resignation or sack. One there­fore wonders how the service chiefs have been facing their subordinates or issue orders as they continue to lose national respect. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! If the statement and body language of the Nigerian monarchs are any­thing to measure public position, the military and security chiefs have failed in arresting the growing threats of in­security in the country. The traditional rulers who visited Governor Zulum of Borno State expressed disgust that the military has found it impossible to flush out the insurgents and occu­py Sambisa Forest and Lake Chad region that is currently occupied by Boko Haram. The Sultan of Sokoto and Co-Chair­man of National Council of Tradi­tional Rulers, Sa’ad Abubakar who led other top monarchs to Maiduguri during the week to condole with the government and people of Borno State on the recent killing of farm­ers by Boko Haram at a rice field in Zabarmari, said the military should occupy the Lake Chad region and the Sambisa forest. Sultan Abubakar, who retired as Army General, said: “I read the comment the governor made some few weeks ago, challenging the military to take the fight to the Lake Chad to clear that place. While I was a Lieutenant, I was at Lake Chad in Baga for six months, my battalion in Bama used to rotate with the battalion in Monguno and Maiduguri every six months. Despite Ongoing Insurance Recapitalisation, Investors Seek Return To Risk-Based Capital Model Flight Delays: Passengers Attack Airlines’ Workers At Abuja, Lagos Airports “We occupied the Lake Chad part of Nigeria for six months. I was a Lieu­tenant, I was the operation officer and I have my maps. In Lake Chad that time, we had 36 islands under Nigeria, we occupied 16 of them, the biggest was King Nasara, we controlled that part of Nigeria effectively well as a battalion. Now, I don’t know why we can’t occupy the whole of Lake Chad and why we can’t occupy the whole of Sambisa forest. If we want peace, we have to dominate these areas. If we want peace, we have to do away with those terrorists who occupy that place and see nothing good in other people except those that believe in their own negative ideas,” he said. He said, “So many lives have been lost in the past, we can’t even com­pute how many lives we have lost. It becomes like a daily occurrence, a dai­ly event. A new normal, it becomes a story when in a day, nobody was killed in a particular place of this country. “We see things getting worse and worse. It used to be Boko Haram alone in Borno and Yobe, now, in all over the north in particular and generally all over the country. You have bandits and terrorists all over the north, you can’t even move freely. In the south, it is the same thing. The killings have taken new dimensions and we really don’t know what are the causes of these mass killings of innocent people,” he queried rather rhetorically. He stopped short at saying that the mil­itary and its leadership have failed Nigerians. It’s not only the service chiefs that are being scolded as a result of the na­tional insecurity. President Muham­madu Buhari has been criticised for his failure to secure lives and property of Nigerians he swore to protect. He is also being carpeted for his inability to dispense with the services of the na­tional security chiefs for lack of ideas to prosecute the war against insurgen­cy and other crimes. After the abduction of over 200 sec­ondary school students at Kankara, Katsina State, a foremost non-gov­ernmental organisation, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) condemned the Nigerian and Katsina State governments for the spectacular security breaches that led to the kidnap of the students of the Government Boys Science Secondary School. The organisation said lack of effec­tiveness and efficiency in securing any and all parts of Nigeria falls squarely on the desk of Mr. President so Buhari has failed in his responsibility to pro­tect Nigerians as clearly spelt out in section 14 (2)(B) of the 1999 Constitu­tion, which makes security and the welfare of the people the primary duty of the government. “So Mr. President should own up to his cocktails of failures to protect the citizens of Nigeria. Mr. President needs to take immediate steps to rem­edy these bad situations because Ni­geria cannot continue to be a country of the primitive epoch whereby the citizens are killed or slaughtered like chickens at the whims and caprices of non -state actors and the government that is elected primarily to protect the citizens has been busy since five years in lamentation and mourning. These ugly situations have gone on for far too long than Nigerians can tolerate. Enough is enough. “These people are first the Gover­nor of Katsina State who needs to be impeached by the Katsina State House of Assembly. Others are the Commis­sioner of Police in Katsina State; the director of Department of States Ser­vices (DSS) in Katsina State and the state Commandants of all the paramil­itary and the military in Katsina state. If Mr. President is truly the Command­er- in -Chief of the Armed Forces in Nigeria, he should dismiss the people who have failed in discharging their duties if on the other hand the Pres­ident fails to take actions, it therefore means that the President tolerates im­punity and in that case the National Assembly should impeach the Presi­dent, because it is an impeachable of­fence, that is if the National Assembly members are not cowards but if they are, then we can live with the reality of our situation as a doomed nation,” the organisation said. Ironically, a demoralised and un­derequipped army is being blamed for slow progress against militants and bandits as Boko Haram. The US recently announced a $329m order for 12 helicopters for the Nigerian Air Force. The deal’s delivery date of 2024 was ridiculed on social media, given the pressing needs of the military for more rudimentary equipment like night vision goggles, helmets and ra­dios. In a report, Matthew Page, associ­ate fellow at the London-based think-tank Chatham House, said the failure to defeat Boko Haram is “a result of not just failed strategy but an unre­formed security sector that has an interest — a pecuniary and political interest — in keeping this low-level insurgency going”. For others the military lacks coordi­nation in the fight against insurgency and banditry. Eze Onyekpere, lead di­rector at the Abuja-based Centre for Social Justice, said, “It appears to be a lack of co-ordination—someone will attack a military compound and for two or three hours the battle is raging and no one coming to support them,” he says. “Where is the air force? How is it that Boko Haram can travel tens of kilometres and sneak up on a military base?” He suggests that it is time for “a change of manpower at the top” of the armed forces, in a country that was under military rule for most of the 40 years after gaining independence in1960, and where two of its four lead­ers since the return of civilian rule were former generals. Other section of Nigerians are in the school of thought that the problem of the military is not in the leadership and if they are change would have lit­tle or no impact in the prosecution of the war on insurgency. Dr. Ndubuisi Nwokolo, security and military expert told Saturday INDE­PENDENT on Wednesday that ma­jority of Nigerians are calling for the sack of the service chiefs for obvious reasons. He said no part of the coun­try could be said to be free, and for our traditional authorities who operate mainly in “our rural area, the height of rural violence especially banditry, kidnapping and farmer-herder clashes are rising astronomically. Considering what current situation most Nigeri­ans think that a change will bring new strategies, new vigour and new energy. “Some of today’s insecurities, especially terrorism and threats for non- state actors is different from the conventional warfare the military is traditionally trained for, but things have changed and every military have embraced these new threats and trains on how to deal with it. “Initially at the start of the Boko Haram attacks, Nigerian military struggled a bit, but more than 10 years into the war; we expect them to have mastered the terror activities and how to approach it. So, we expect their trainings to reflect the new threats. “As a matter of urgency, a change of the service chiefs will change the dy­namics of the fight against insurgency and insecurity. New service chiefs will come in with fresh ideas and inspira­tion and will halt this defeat currently being experienced by the military. At least, it will give some time to re-strat­egise on what other tactical, strate­gic and operational means to use. In 2015, when these chief services were brought it by President Buhari, there were some immediate results for about six months,” Nwokolo said. A scientist and inventor, Ebube George told our correspondent that the Service Chiefs have failed indefen­sibly, as the body count across Nigeria and especially in the Northern part of the country is not just alarming but sums up the security dysfunctionality of Africa’s narcoleptic giant. “That our borders have been or were supposed to be closed from arms and all form of sabotaging for several months further worsens the grand strategy at play to curb the menace of terrorism and holistic insecurity. “The fact is that Nigerian Govern­ment and it’s Service Chiefs have not learnt any lessons from the kidnap of the Chibok school girls which gave rise to the #BringBackOurGirls cam­paign that went global to the Dapchi abductions later and only a few days ago the Kankara kidnap of 333 boys in Katsina, is indicative of nothing short of incompetence on the part of the Service Chiefs. All tactical orchestrations, intelli­gence gathering/sharing by the Nige­ria Army and the entire military as a behemoth to win the war against terrorism and rein in security defi­ciencies in the North of Nigeria espe­cially with over 90% of the Nigerian security architecture run by the same Northerners as also all other positions in the Nigeria Government and they have been a huge disappointing failure to say the least,” he said. Like many respondents told Sat­urday INDEPENDENT within the week, George said, “Nigeria needs a total rethinking of its entire political governance and military strategy. A carrot and stick approach is needed, then there is the question of inviting foreign mercenaries, who have lam­basted the President Buhari Adminis­tration of labelling them corrupt and sabotaging the verifiable gains they made against the war on terror (Boko Haram) whilst under the employ of the President Goodluck Jonathan gov­ernment, which retrieved all territo­ries under the terrorist hold.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION