LAGOS  – Farmers in Lagos state and their counterparts in the South West states have been advised to brace up in the area of food production and supply to tackle the expected food scarcity which is likely to come into manifestation in 2021. Abisola Olusanya, Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture made the call while speaking at the closing ceremony of the 3rd batch Training on Entrepreneurship Accessing Single Digit CBN Agro-Credit and Export Readiness, organised by Lagos State Agro-Processing Productivity, Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support (APPEALS) for its beneficiaries. Olusanya tasked the beneficiaries not to keep the knowledge acquired from the training to themselves alone, but teach others so that the sector as a whole can begin to grow and contribute significantly to the nation’s and the state’s GDP. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “Go out and teach others so that the sector as a whole can begin to grow and our GDP to the nation and Lagos will begin to increase so that people will see the agricultural sector as a sector to be reckoned with. “ It should not always be relegated to the background. If you talk of agriculture a lot of people focus on the North but in the South we should also see agriculture as a mainstay. How To Invest In Tomato Processing Business Cooperative Society To Support 320,852 Rice Farmers In 12 States “In case you don’t know, 2021 is going to be a tougher year. 2021 is going to be a year where we will see the impact of food scarcity more and more. In terms of import, forget that rice and maize importation was banned, even without placing ban on certain products some. “Products will not come into Nigeria as they used to just because other countries are also making sure they boost their food security status. What that means is that if these items even come in, it will be so expensive that the little money you have in your pocket may not be able to buy such item. He added: “What that means is that the onus lies on us to start growing our foods and grow it well and not just to rely on the north to keep supplying us the food. Oluranti Sagoe-Oviebo, State Project Coordinator for APPEALS at a parley with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the programme is about linking farmers to second level financing, in partnership with Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and APPEALS Project. She said CBN has engaged some Entrepreneurship Development Institute (EDI) so that they can train the beneficiaries on export promotion and sourcing for finance. She said a total of 250 beneficiaries have been selected for the programme, that the beneficiaries are group in 50s so as to observe the COVID-19 protocol, stressing that three batches have graduated and two more batches go. On what APPEALS has done to assist farmers during the lockdown, she said the first thing that was done was to enlighten the farmers on covid-19 preventive measures and how to keep themselves safe. She added that about 500 farmers were trained on e-marketing and value addition to help increase their product’s shelf life and income while reducing post-harvest losses. Sagoe-Oviebo also stated that the project also created an e-marketing platform to help farmers sell their products during the lockdown occasioned by the pandemic, stressing that this really helped a lot of the farmers. “We are also aware that a lot of farmers do not have financial well withal right now, so the project has supported 780 farmers with inputs, and on the average each farmer has been supported with over 1 Million in different inputs, equipment and capacity building for a lot of them,” she said. Speaking further, she noted that the beneficiaries are expected to develop a viable business plan after the training which would be screened based on the CBN’s criteria to get the loan. “Any of the beneficiaries who get the CBN loan will pay back, but we in APPEALS give grants which they don’t pay back,” she said. Some of the beneficiaries in the past batches who spoke with our Correspondent, said that the training has had great impact on their businesses and how they run their businesses. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION