LAGOS  – The nation’s power sector did little in the outgoing year to enable Nigerians enjoy stable electricity supply in the country. Gas constraints, poor distribution and transmission infrastructure and metering challenges punctuated the performance of the sector seven years after its privatization and transfer of the assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria to the new investors. For instance, the Advisory Power Team (APT) in its latest 30-day review of the power sector lost N22.294 billion It also said, of the 4,482MW average energy generated, the country lost 1,548MW. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! According to the report, some generation power plants did not produce any power for the period in review. They include Alaoji NIPP, Ihovbor NIPP, ASCO, and AES. Egbin Plant, on the other hand, generated the most power while other power plants including, Azura-Edo, Kainji, and Jebba were also active. It said with revenue leakages owing to constraints within the system, including poor infrastructure, the country lost 1.548 megawatts per hour of the 4.482 megawatts average energy generated from November 26 to December 25, while the peak for the 30 days stood at 5.504mw, declining by 16 per cent compared to the previous month. ‘Why Current Electricity Tariff Hike Is Fraudulent’ ‘Nigeria’s Power Sector Could Be Worse In 2021’ In 2020, Siemens gave a damning verdict on power generation in Nigeria in its Technical and Commercial report, adding that the subsector will continue to require subsidies and face harsh financing conditions for new projects. The outgoing year also recorded embarrassing number of grid collapses which plunged the nation into darkness. According to the report of System Operator (SO) department of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), the number of collapses was recorded because the country’s transmission grid is “able to transmit only 3.5 to 4.5GW of power efficiently.” It said while several hundred megawatts of power are regularly lost due to breakdowns. Industry, commerce and private households are suffering from a severe shortfall in electricity generation.” It added that frequent interruptions of power supply have forced most of the country’s commercial and industrial customers to rely fully or partially on self-generation. “Poor power supply is the biggest challenge to manufacturers, especially the ones in the small and medium enterprises sector, because they rely almost totally on public power supply. Even if the grid supply is available to a commercial or industrial installation, it is not continuous. “There are frequent interruptions throughout the day resulting into loss of production and even failure of equipment. Many commercial and industrial customers are thus not willing to take supply from Discos. “Inadequate generation, transmission, and distribution network is resulting into extremely low reliability of power supply especially to commercial and industrial customers. This situation is resulting into enhanced usage of generators by residents, commercial, and industrial customers. “Current estimates indicate that over 90 per cent of businesses and 30 per cent of homes have diesel-powered generators, meaning that there are currently about 15 million generators in Nigeria,” the report explained. On the reliability levels of the Discos’ networks, it explained that, “the reliability performance of almost all Discos in Nigeria is much worse than best in class utilities. “The responsibility of this situation is not that of Discos but variety of other reasons.” It listed factors responsible for such low level of reliability to include inadequate power generation, inadequate and dilapidated transmission and distribution network, poor upkeep of transmission and distribution network and lack of investment. On account of this development, the report said that all the Discos currently have a great amount of suppressed load, with only residential customers as the main off-takers of electricity from the national grid. The report explained that the poor paying capacity of majority of these customers is the real reason for very high aggregate technical commercial and collection (ATC&C) losses of the Discos. “Poor condition of the distribution system is seriously affecting the quality and reliability of power. As a result, the residential, commercial, and industrial customers are forced to use self-generation to meet their daily requirements. “This is not only leading to financial loss to utility and customers, but also causing great loss to Nigerian Economy. Nearly 81 per cent of the households gets less than eight hours electricity every day thus relying on self-generation. The cost of generating electricity through diesel gen-sets is reported to be in the vicinity of Naira 70/ KWh to 130/kWh against the grid allowed tariff of Naira 28/KWh,” it added. Perhaps, the COVID-19 pandemic affected the nation’s troubled power sector with concomitant effects on electricity consumers Due to the pandemic in the outgoing year, electricity demand from industrial and commercial customers has reduced significantly while the residential market is expected to have increased. A report by a top notch international consultancy firm,PriceWater Cooper, said the development has led to a distortion in the cost subsidy quality of the tariff and reduces the cashflows to operators. “A noticeable impact of the current situation on DISCOs arises from the loss of revenues due to the reduction in demand from commercial and industrial customers. The reduction of demand affects the ability of the tariff to effectively cross-subsidise the lower-tariff paying consumers. The full long-term impact of the current situation would only become apparent with time. Some early impacts of COVID-19 on the Nigeria power sector are already being felt,” it added. The financial squeeze caused by the pandemic prevented the new electricity tariff from taking off on April 1,this year amidst public outcry against the development. Besides, the initial proposal to give consumers free electricity supply for three months to cushion the excruciating pains caused them ended in wishful thinking as the actors in the project engaged in buck passing. A new tariff regime, using service -based principles, kicked off from September following what the government termed wide consultation with labour which was later reasoned to be poorly executed by the latter which prevented Nigerians from trooping out to streets to protest the increase in electricity tariff But Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission said the tariff regime only affects customers that live in areas where the DISCOs promise to provide them electricity for at least 12 hours. NERC further maintained that the new guidelines will provide a path to full transition to full service-based cost reflective tariff by July 2021. In the outgoing year the Federal Government embarked on National Mass Metering programme (NMMP) of aimed at distributing 6 million meters free of charge. Chinedu Bosah, coordinator of Coalition for Affordable and Regular Electricity (CARE),said the initiative looks good on the surface but it is the typical bailout of privileged businesses to the detriment of the Nigerian taxpayers and the working masses. He added: “We must not forget that a chunk of the N213 billion that the federal government gave the power companies in 2015 is yet to be paid back. This latest intervention by the federal government will not be different as it will turn out to be another case study of using public funds to bail out irresponsible and failing private companies”. Joy Ogaji , Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), the umbrella body of all the Gencos, said that members of the association are currently regretting investing in the sector since 2013 when the sector was privatised. Earlier, the APGC chief executive said that 2021 could be worse for the power sector because there was nothing on the ground to point to that will markedly transform the power sector. “The situation has not been different from 2013 to date. It has been seven years of gloomy annual losses to the Gencos. Some of the investors have told me they regret investing in the Nigerian power sector. “It’s as if the power sector is cursed. I am quoting one of the investors. One of them called me and poured out his heart, how painful it is to invest in this sector. “For the Gencos, it’s not just 2020 that’s gloomy. From 2013 till date has been gloomy. In 2020, we have Covid-19 to blame, but for Gencos from 2013 to 2019, what did we blame it on? There was no Covid-19 for six years. It’s a seven-year gloomy anniversary. “We are not even sure 2021 will be a bright year because there’s nothing on the ground to show that 2021 is going to be better. That’s how bad it is,” she lamented. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION