Mercedes-Benz has unveiled the all-new GLB passenger car segment, which brings the best of both worlds with its strong Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) DNA into the Nigerian market. The GLB is the eighth entry in Mercedes-Benz’s compact class as it joins the A-Class, B-Class, CLA, GLA, A-Class Saloon, CLA Shooting Brake and the long-wheelbase A-Class Saloon. Weststar Associates Limited, Authorised General Distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria said that the latest brand is family vehicle with distinction for class. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Mr. Mirko Plath, the Managing Director, Weststar Associates Limited, in a statement, said the company was proud to introduce this brand-new addition in the Mercedes-Benz family to the country’s market. “The new GLB caters to a growing demographic, which we have also identified here in Nigeria. We strongly believe that our customers will embrace this new product as they have with our better-known products,” he said. Transport Owners Raise Concerns Over Non- Disbursement Of N10bn COVID-19 Bailout Fund Ford’s $2.6bn Investment To Boost VW Transporter Van Plant In Turkey The statement hinted that the exterior design of the new GLB comes with great off-road appeal with its front apron with a visual skid plate that emphasises the GLB’s unmistakable SUV character. The radiator grille, it said comes with a double louvre finished in chrome inserts with the option of a diamond radiator grille with pins in chrome for the AMG line. Another highlight on the front end is the headlamps, which come with the MULTIBEAM LED lighting technology. The side view comes with recognisable features like a raised roof railing in chrome finish, 17 – 20-inch light-alloy wheels, door panels and wheel arches (claddings), while the rear-view features two-piece tail lamps with the reflectors relocated to the bumper, chrome plated loading sill protector and visible tail pipe trim elements that complements the overall design of the vehicle. Sporting a high-quality design, the interior of the all-new GLB stands out with several comforts and luxury features. From fully digital displays to an off-road character, the GLB’s interior is interpreted in a young way. The dashboard wears a technical, avantgarde look, with the Widescreen Cockpit free-standing, positioned on the lower part of the dashboard, while the air-conditioning control panel wears an analogue-look with buttons in an aluminum finish. Other standout features include; three different seat variants that offer good ergonomics and a high level of comfort, ambient lightening provided exclusively by energy-saving LEDs and a center console that comes with a stowage compartment which houses a cup holder, a 12 V socket and a USB port. The GLB impresses with plenty of space combined with compact dimensions, at 2829 mm the GLB has the longest wheelbase of the current compact-class generation from Mercedes-Benz. The headroom in the first seat row is 1069 mm – an optimum in this segment. At 967 mm, the effective legroom in the rear of the five-seater is at an especially comfortable level. The GLB is equipped with MBUX (Mercedes-Benz User Experience), the system features as standard two 7-inch displays (optionally: 2 x 10.25-inch), a sports steering wheel with Touch Control buttons on the left and right, a USB port (Type C) and Bluetooth connection for telephony and audio sources. The new GLB places its trust in the four-cylinder petrol engines which have been completely updated to re-launch the compact model series. In comparison to the previous generation, they are characterised by significantly increased power and torque. The GLB 200 uses a 1.66 liters M282 petrol engine with an output of 163hp (120kw) and a peak torque of 250 nm; while the GLB 250 4MATIC uses a 2.0-litre M260 petrol engine with an output of 224hp (165kw) and a peak torque of 350 nm. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION