ABUJA  – Products according to Kotler exist at five different levels and can best be understood at these five different levels with regards to what should make up a product offering. The core benefit represents the fundamental need or want that consumers satisfy by consuming the product or service. For instance, the core benefit of Coca Cola and most other drinks is to quench a thirst or mobility for automobiles. The second level is the generic product devoid of any embellishments or upgrades; the basic level or version of the product containing only those attributes or characteristics absolutely necessary for it to function; the knocked down version of the product. For a car this will be the basic functionality required for the car to move from point one to another. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The expected product is the third level and represents the set of attributes or characteristics that buyers normally expect and agree to when they purchase a product. For instance a drink is expected to be served cold so as to effectively quench thirst whereas a sports car is expected to have certain level of inbuilt speed and maneuverability to function as a sports car. The augmented product involves the inclusion of additional features, benefits, attributes or related services that serve to differentiate the product from its competitors and position it in a class of its own. Vitafoam’s Subsidiary, Vitavisco, To Unveil New Product Brand Architecture And Different Types Of Brands (7) This will refer to all the available options that can be included in a Mercedes 500 to customise it and differentiate it from Mercedes 350 etc. The potential product is the fifth level and represents all the augmentations and transformations a product might undergo in the future. This is important because not only does customers’ expectations and values change with time but businesses must aim to surprise and delight customers in the future by continuing to augment products so as to be able to retain their loyalty. A lot of scenario buildings and forecasting will be required to arrive at the possible future state of the product that will be desirable by the customers. The five levels of the product therefore provide veritable tools or platforms that can be manipulated to be able to build a strong brand. For instance the brand triangle concept can be used in trying to build a product brand as follows; What concept should one choose and with what balance of tangible and intangible benefits as well as the particular level of product in designing the identity and positioning level of the brand? How should the brand concept be embodied in its products or services? How should a product or service of the brand be different, look different? What products can this brand concept encompass or what will be the boundary beyond which a particular product cannot extend or be stretched so as not to loose its distinctiveness. For instance, what will be the limit of Mercedes E 350 in its brand evolution so as to still remain distinct and different from all other Mercedes products while still being focused or positioned for the particular segment for which it is being targeted? The Brand Triangle is therefore, one approach you can use to distinctly identify and position the product or services. In seeking to build a lasting product or service brand three key components must be taken into consideration; the brand platform to be created, customer experience or emotions and the product strategy. When all these are put together according to Dessinger and Thelen your Brand Platform needs to articulate your persona, how you are meaningfully different in the marketplace (your differentiation) – what you do differently from anyone else in your industry, and why it’s better while your Customer Experience needs to establish an emotional connection – how you want your customers to feel whenever and wherever they interact with you? Your Product Strategy on the other hand needs to deliver utility and value – what they are actually spending money on? What needs it meets. Where does it fit on the quality and price dimensions vs. their alternatives? How does it create superior value in the marketplace? At the center of the triangle is the customer mainly because whatever you do or think it is the customer’s perspective of those things you have done not what you think about them that matter. You may have thought that you have arrived at an eureka moment whereas the customer may not think too highly about that. An example could be a particular augmentation to the product which you might be of the perspective will be a deal clincher meanwhile the customer may not think too highly or be particularly enthused by them. Targeting therefore, is a key element of this customer experience design because what certain segments might be enthused about might be a put off for the other segment. A very good understanding of the target segment is therefore, paramount so as to discover what appeals and what does not appeal to them. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION