Those in positions of authority at various tiers of government across Nigeria, irrespective of religious, political or ethnic affiliations, should render selfless service to the citizens with the fear of God, especially as millions of followers of the Lord Jesus Christ in Christendom globally, troop out in large numbers to churches and other worship centres to celebrate the birth of the Saviour and Prince of Peace today. On December 25 every year, Christians, in prayerful and joyful moods, engage in various soul-lifting and memorable activities in commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ whose uncommon historic divine birth in the lowly manger in Bethlehem more than 2,000 years ago remains unprecedented, as well as the most invaluable gift to mankind across the universe. Unlike leaders of today, especially in Nigeria and other parts of the African Continent, Jesus, despite his intimidating exalted position, coupled with his unwavering vast miraculous prowess, humbled himself by voluntarily and proudly washing the dirty feet of his disciples unconditionally to clearly demonstrate the need for leaders to serve the people humbly, selflessly and cheerfully for others to emulate in order to move the country forward. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Throughout his action-packed lifetime, Jesus Christ exhibited exemplary lifestyle while through numerous divine miracles and soul-elevating motivational teachings, he touched many lives positively by wiping tears away from faces of the poor, barren women, widows, the underprivileged, the hapless, the helpless and the hopeless, amongst others. He was known for always doing good. He was helpful, caring and never stopped promoting peaceful co-existence between his ardent followers and worshippers of other religions. COVID-19: As Nigeria Grapples With Spike In New Infections It’s Time For Electronic Voting As Christians in Nigeria celebrate yet another birthday of Jesus Christ today, they should seriously reflect on his sterling leadership qualities and emulate his good deeds as part of their contributions to the political socio-economic and industrial development of our beloved country. Although today is essentially for celebration of the birth of Jesus, it should also be unique occasion for sober reflection by leaders and the led, especially now that our country is facing serious economic and security challenges, as well as other forms of criminality threatening peace and stability of the country. Irrespective of political, religious, ethnic, cultural or occupational inclinations, this is moment for all citizens to pray fervently and fast with unswerving sincerity for sustainable peace, progress and prosperity of the country and the citizenry. Like Jesus, our leaders must lead by example. They should conduct themselves in such a way that their followers can trust them and emulate their good deeds. They should put the Almighty first in all their endeavours and render selfless service to country and citizens. Our leaders need to shun tendencies that continue to divide rather than unite country and citizenry. President Muhammadu Buhari and his APC-led, administration should use occasion of the celebration of Christ’s birthday to seriously address those recurring policies, programmes and projects of government that continue to engender grievances, agitations and protests leading to avoidable loss of precious lives and properties across the country. The lingering bloodbaths virtually on daily basis and seeming inability or failure of federal government to bring the situation under control is bad omen portraying Nigeria and its leaders in bad light, before the global community. Leaders elected or appointed into political offices at various tiers owe the led the sacred duty or obligation to provide good governance in-line with their campaign promises or they should quit office honourably. Throughout his celebrated sojourn on earth, Jesus was widely reported to have had zero-tolerance for sins such as greed, corruption, wickedness, selfishness and other forms of official malfeasance continuously rocking our country. In Nigeria, especially since the return of democracy in 1999, corruption, wickedness, deceit, wanton killings, kidnapping, armed robbery, banditry, cultism and Boko Haram insurgency, amongst others, have prominently featured on the crime radar. Unfortunately, despite government’s repeated assurances that it is on top of the ugly, embarrassing and disturbing situation, blood-thirsty criminals are emboldened to carry out their dastardly acts largely because none of them has been prosecuted to serve as a deterrent since government seems to lack the political will to act decisively. Nigerians owe themselves the duty to once and for all, end poor governance and bad leadership in the country. They should shun selfish and wicked practices political leaders with hidden inordinate ambitions, use to divide their unsuspecting followers along political, religious, ethnic or tribal lines. As 2023 is approaching, the citizens should stop being docile and unconcerned about political developments. They should start preparing to vote out bad leaders and replace them with focus-driven, incorruptible and patriotic leaders with vision to resuscitate the battered economy and end insecurity-related challenges confronting the country. Like Jesus, our leaders must refrain from sins or vices leading to bloodbaths. The Executive should execute projects responsibly for benefit of various nationalities. The Legislature should make laws to improve lives of citizens and let institutions operate seamlessly while the Judiciary must dispense justice dispassionately and without fear or favour. When leaders and the led perform their respective duties in-line with rules and regulations, there will be peace across the land to encourage sustainable local and foreign investments to thrive. Nigeria is not progressing because of insincerity, wickedness and evil deeds of a few number of corrupt characters that have cornered the wealth and other resources belonging to majority of the 206 million citizens. The citizens must responsibly and peacefully challenge their leaders to account for their stewardship. It is unfair for leaders to continuously flagrantly order poverty-stricken citizens to further tighten their belts while they with profound impunity, turn deaf ears to unending demands that they reduce drastically, their rising costs of governance due to bloated political architecture, as well as scandalous flamboyant lifestyles that have incurred wrath of criminals now terrorizing innocent citizens countrywide. To ensure fairness, justice and equity, which Jesus propagated during his lifetime, it is not only the impoverished that should make sacrifice. There is no sacrifice that is too much for our leaders to make for our beloved country, Nigeria, to regain its lost glory and be ranked favourably, among most leading 20 economies in the world. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION