An Attorney is a person designated to transact business for another – a legal agent with the authorisation of a principal to do what the principal can lawfully do. The expression Attorney-General was originally used to refer to any person who holds a general power of attorney to represent a principal in all matters. In modern usage, Attorney-General refers to the Law Firm of the State. Its origin or basis is said to have been that, as the Sovereign – President, Prime Minister, Governor, et cetera, as the case may be – could not appear in person in his/her own courts to plead in a case in which he/she had an interest, an Attorney appeared on his/her behalf. The complexities and expansive nature of the functions of modern constitutional Sovereigns have not only widened the role and duties of the Attorney-General but have also made the office very burdensome and controversial. The scope of the office has since gone way beyond the maintenance of the interest of the Sovereign in the courts of the land and/or advising the Sovereign and all offices, institutions, agencies and departments, and authorities and persons exercising legislative, executive and judicial powers with a view to having them conform to, observe and apply the provisions of the Constitution. The Attorney-General’s Office is also responsible for the drafting of legislation and vetting of all contracts or agreements of which the government is a party, including international agreements, treaties or conventions. In most modern democracies, the Attorney-General’s Office is made permanent by their constitutions or laws and, in some other cases, executive functions of a cabinet grade are added to the office. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! In the case of Nigeria, the Constitution creates the Office of the Attorney-General who shall be the Chief Law Officer of the Federation and a Minister of the Government of the Federation who must be qualified to practise as a legal practitioner in Nigeria and has been so qualified for not less than ten years. By virtue of the Constitution, the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) also serves as the Minister of Justice – concerned with questions of policy and their relationship to the justice system. According to Abubakar Malami, SAN, the current Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, one of the major challenges militating against the effective administration of justice in Nigeria is the lack of a clear and coherent National Policy on Justice leading to absence of a mechanism for coordination and development of the sector. He declared that the Ministry has responded by initiating reforms and consensus building among justice sector institutions and practitioners, for the purpose of collectively addressing the challenges hindering effective justice delivery in the country. In order not to mistake the Federal Ministry of Justice for an appendage to the Attorney-General’s Office, a historical narrative to the ministry is expedient. I cannot do better than the following historical perspective by the late jurist, Niki Tobi, in an article titled as “The Federal Ministry of Justice as Government’s Legal Adviser to the Ministry of External Affairs in Nigeria”, published in Dalhousie Law Journal, (1979) 5:1 DLJ 199: Religious Insurgency And Failing Leadership Of Nigeria: A Time For Dialogue (1) Lesson From Travails Of Abaribe And Ndume Before the establishment of the Federal Ministry of Justice, there was in existence the Colonial Legal Department, which was headed by a Briton. He was the Registrar and Taxing Master of the then Supreme Court between 1863 and 1901. In addition to this duty, he functioned both as the Queen’s Advocate and the Queen’s Proctor. The exact date in which the Office of the Attorney-General was created is not known, but there is evidence that it was created during the era of Lord Lugard. The first incumbent of the Office of the Attorney-General was Sir Donald Kingdon who was in office for almost twenty years. He vacated the office in 1943 to become the Chief Justice of Nigeria. The Law Officers Act made provision for the offices of the Attorney-General, Solicitor-General and Crown Counsel, who were designated as Law Officers of the Federal Government. The Attorney-General and other Crown Counsel(s) had the right to practice ex-officio as ‘barristers, advocates and Solicitor’ of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. They also had the right to appear in court in all parts of the Country as Counsel. The Federal Ministry of Justice was formally established on October 1, 1960, when Nigeria attained independence. The first incumbent of the office of the Attorney-General was Mr. Justice T.O. Elias. The Ministry was then divided into three departments, viz: the Departments of the Solicitor-General; Administrator-General and the Director of Public Prosecutions. The developing economy of the country necessitated the expansion of the Ministry in the early sixties. In a reorganisation exercise, the Ministry was divided into five divisions. These are the Divisions of the Solicitor-General; Industrial and Mercantile Law; Research, Law Review and Law Reporting; International and Comparative Law; Constitutional and Administrative Law and Director of Public Prosecutions. In April, 1968, following the creation of States, the Ministry lost to the Lagos State Ministry of Justice the Department of Administrator-General which dealt with the administration of estates of deceased persons within the former Federal Territory of Lagos. In July, 1977, the Ministry was again reorganised. The Attorney-General is the chief law officer of the Federation. The Attorney-General of the Federation is complemented by the Offices of the Solicitor General and Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). Although the prosecutorial powers of the Attorney-General are exercised by the Director of Public Prosecutions and staff, the Attorney-General maintains formal control, including the power to institute and undertake criminal proceedings against any person before any court of law in Nigeria, other than a court-martial, in respect of any offence created by an Act of the National Assembly, and can take over and continue such criminal proceedings and terminate public prosecutions. There are also certain offences that require the individual consent of the Attorney-General. This is generally said to be for offences whose illegality is of a somewhat controversial nature or where there is perceived to be a significant risk that prosecutions of a political nature may be embarked upon. The Attorney-General also has the power to issue a nolle prosequi with respect to a case, which authoritatively determines that the state (in whose name prosecutions are brought) does not wish to prosecute the case, thus preventing any person from doing so. The English jurist and philosopher Sir Francis Bacon, known to be a master of the English tongue, once said that the Office of the Attorney-General was the “painfullest task in the realm.” Another English occupant of the Office, Sir Patrick Hastings, is recorded to have said that to be an Attorney-General is to be in hell. The Office is by its nature bound to be that onerous and challenging. It is the job of the Attorney-General to advise the Government on the constitutionality of policies and actions taken or embarked upon by the Government. It is his job to give or proffer justifications for the actions, policies and laws of the Government. It is the Attorney-General who advises the President on whether proposed legislations by the National Assembly comply with the provisions of the constitution or treaties freely entered into by the Federal Government. The Attorney-General is adviser to all Federal Executive Council Meetings and that invariably makes it imperative for the Office to be abreast of all Memoranda slated for consideration at such meetings. As the legal adviser to each and every Department or Institution of Government, the Office has its reach and hands on every sector of the Government. Besides the highly technical job of drafting statutory instruments and conveyancing instruments concerning national and transnational businesses, the Attorney-General is the defender of the Government’s interests in all of such transactions. Coordinating the personnel or legal officers across the length and breadth of all Federal departments and bodies, the Office of the Attorney-General is arguably the most engaging and busiest Office in the Federation. This may also explain why Nigeria has never had a popular Attorney-General. Theoretically, the Attorney-General is not subject to any control while discharging his constitutional responsibilities. The Courts have laid the firm precedent that, as the Chief Law Officer in whom is vested the Constitutional responsibility for bringing and defending actions on behalf of the state, the Attorney-General is not subject to any control, and that no other functionary or institution of the state can exercise such powers without its authorisation. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION