If you don’t watch the company you keep, then, you are bound to end up in disaster and shame. A wise man once said that what you will become in five years is a function of two things, first, the book you read and second, the friends you keep. Even if you come from a Christian home with good upbringing and you mistakenly or intentionally hang out with the wrong people, it is just a matter of time you will be like them. It is easy for black to stain white but difficult for black to torn to white. Too many homes have been destroyed because of bad friends. One of my lovely aunties with great potentials and future lost out on everything and eventually died because of her hanging around terrible friends. One of my friends many years ago while still in my teens who happened to be the only boy among two elder sisters and one younger sister completely lost his elder sister to drug addiction all because she started associating with wrong friends. She eventually dropped out of school and became addicted that she was always looking haggard and dirty. I had an experience while in school many years ago as an undergraduate. I saw many good girls from good homes that eventually ended up like prostitutes, all because they got admission into schools far from their parents and unfortunately made friends with spoilt girls that introduce them to sleeping around town with men and going to parties organized by politicians. Most times it’s not because they need the money but just for the fun of it. Some students then had some clothes for school and another set when they get home, they developed this double lifestyle right from school and progress and get worse when they graduate and get job and they even continue to live like that in their matrimonial homes. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! There is something about habits whether good or bad that is very difficult to change, even, when you want. So, once that habit of dressing waywardly and indecent becomes part of one as a lady, it follows them even to their husband’s house. I always say that what you do not want do not watch and it is easy to uproot a seed than a tree. The tree you do not want, do not plant the seed. We also have some ladies now whose indecent dressing started from when they were children. They were unfortunate to have been brought up by wayward mothers who instill indecency in them from childhood. Initially Engineer Mike Blessing could not understand what happened to his wife of over fifteen years. Mrs. Fidelia Blessing is from a Christian home, her late father was a pioneer member of the first Pentecostal church in his village and he was also a very successful farmer and owned large quantity of land. Her father was also a respected member of the community; he was not only strict but also a strong disciplinarian. She is the last child and only girl in the family of five; she finished her secondary school in the only girls’ community school in the clan. The clan is made up of five villages. She got admission to study Business Management in one of the federal universities in Nigeria. Fidelia’s dressing started changing immediately she got admitted into the university. Her parents noticed the change in their only daughter’s way of dressing and immediately warned against such dressing. Buhari’s Leadership Is Like That Of Saul – Prophet Bamidele Group Demands For Christian President In 2023  SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION