A group, under the auspices of Forum of Plateau Mothers (FOPLAM), has lauded Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, for signing into law some bills passed by the Plateau State House of Assembly. Among the Bills accented to by the Governor to effectively tackle criminal activities in the state, includes anti-kidnapping, anti-land grabbing,anti-cultism Act, among others. The female Group however cautioned that signing the bills into law without adequate funding for security agencies would render the efforts fruitless. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! To this end, the Forum of Plateau Mothers,in a statement, Monday,appealed to Governor Lalong to compliment the efforts of the federal government by adequately supporting the security agencies in the state to crush all criminals. The forum’s chairperson, Barr. (Mrs) Rebecca Pam,in the statement, particularly praised Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) among other security agencies for restoring peace on the Plateau, expressing happiness that some areas in the state which were hitherto known for crises have turned a new leaf. NBA Fine 76ers Exec Morey $50,000 For Harden Tweet Ekiti To Engage More Architects In Urban Renewal, Revive Farm Settlements “We wish to strongly commend the Executive Governor of Plateau State, Barr. Simon Bako Lalong, for taking the bold step by signing into law the state’s anti-kidnapping, anti-land grabbing,anti-cultism and other related matters bills passed by the Plateau State House of Assembly,” it said. “This is the sure way to start in dealing with the menace of kidnapping in some areas of Plateau State.” “The death sentence for kidnapping is a welcome step and must be commended by all. However, we appeal to the governor to massively scale up his support for security agencies to enable them defeat this monster called kidnapping that is threatening Plateau State at the moment,” the group added. According to the Plateau mothers,”Our findings have regrettably shown that our security agencies don’t have sufficient vehicles, telecommunications, gadgets, close circuit cameras to police the forest, drones and even finances to buy fuel to respond to distress calls.” “We are therefore, appealing to the father of state and peace lover, Governor Lalong to save the citizens of the state from kidnappers and other criminalities by providing logistics to our security agencies,” it reiterated. The group said it was elated that the security agencies in the state have restored peace. It said:”We wholeheartedly and emotionally commend Operation Safe Haven, (OPSH), the special military task force set up in Plateau State for internal security operations, and other security agencies for working so hard to restore relative peace to the state and environs. “This is so dear to us as mothers because of the so much trauma occasioned by the lost of lives, maiming, raping and others we have experienced in our communities in the past.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION