UYO – A pan-Niger Delta group, Niger Delta Conscience Coalition (NDCC), has condemned those opposed to Mr. Effiong Akwa’s appointment as Interim Administrator of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Recall that some stakeholders and youth groups from certain parts of the Niger Delta region have been expressing sentiments against the appointment of Mr. Akwa, an indigene of Akwa Ibom state, as Interim Administrator of the NDDC by the federal government. In a press statement made available to journalists in Uyo  on Thursday, the group also recounted protest by Ijaws youths against Akwa’s appointment which led to disruption of vehicular traffic around the Mbiama-Yenogoa road the 20th of December. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The NDCC maintained in the statement signed by its president, Aniefiok Obot and secretary, John Adangu Jumbo, that every community and state in the region shared common challenges and destiny,  hence have equal stake in the Niger Delta. ”Believing in the spirit of oneness of the Niger Delta, and whereas Akwa Ibom people are known to be generally peaceful in their approach to issues of our regional co-existence, Niger Delta Conscience Coalition would have chosen to ignore and indeed has been ignoring quite a lot of activities of the Fifth Columnist in the Niger Delta struggle. Nigerians Must Look Forward To Prosperous 2021 – Makinde Anambra: One Dead, Four Injured In Multiple Motor Accidents ”But we have been forced to take a position now against some signals emanating from certain quarters of the Niger Delta areas since the appointment of a bona fide son of the Niger Delta, Chief(Barr) Effiong Akwa to the exalted position of interim administrator of the Niger Delta Development Commission(NDDC) by the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari. ”Of particular interest referred here is the recently reported disruption of vehicular traffic  flow by a section of the Ijaw youths movement around the Mbiama-Yenogoa on the 20th of December, 2020. ”There are several acceptable ways of engaging constructively, intelligently, productively and inclusively which may help the image of the region but the present posture of protest and blockades portray us as unfriendly for investment and therefore is capable of shifting the federal government and international investors interest and emphasis away from the region”, the statement said. The group also stated that it was not unconstitutional to appoint an interim administrator for the intervention agency as a precedence had already been set in appointment of Mrs. Joi Nunieh from Delta state and the recently exited Prof Pondei from Bayelsa state. It appealed to Nigerians to support the federal government’s forensic audit of the NDDC, adding that the audit which has the support of Niger Delta governors would bring maximum benefits to the region. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION