ASABA – There are indications that most commu­nities in Imo State may reschedule their respective ceremo­nies including chieftaincy titles, coronations, priestly ordinations or any other gathering that may attract large crowds slated for this Christmas and New Year seasons, following the antic­ipated resurgence of Coro­navirus pandemic. Governor Hope Uzodim­ma had on Sunday barred persons across the state from hosting ceremonies beyond 100 persons in attendance to ensure the people’s safety health wise is guaranteed. “But the times are far from normal. The dreaded Corona­virus pandamic, otherwise known as Covid 19, is back in town at full speed. My beloved Imo people, as I earlier said, I will not want this Christmas to be the last for any of us. Let us take these safety protocols serious and observe them te­naciously. It is in the interest of all of us to do so”, said the Imo State Governor EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Governor Uzodinma has also ordered the closure of Imo State Secretariat with ef­fective from Monday, Decem­ber 21 as part of measures to check the menace of covid-19. He outlined the dangers of the fresh spike in Covid-19 pandemic and directed that all government workers ex­cept permanent secretaries and political appointees should stay away from office till further notice. Hundreds Of Obigbo Residents Still Taken To Slaughter Houses In The North, IPOB Alleges Uzodinma Restores Land Acquired By Okorocha’s Administration The governor said that the wearing of face masks has become necessary and compulsory for every Imo indigene as Mobile Courts have been directed to arrest and prosecute anyone found without wearing a face mask. The Governor also di­rected that no social gath­ering in Imo State during this Christmas that should have more than 100 persons in attendance, just as the attendees must observe so­cial distancing and all the Covid-19 safety protocols. Markets and public plac­es, the Governor noted, must also put in place wash hand facilities, sanitizers and oth­er Covid-19 pandemic safety measures as recommended by the Nigetia Centre for Dis­eases Control (NCDC). “My dear good people of Imo State, it is with a great sense of responsibility that I address you on this auspi­cious season of Christmas.In normal times, with just a few days to Christmas, I should be saying a very happy Christ­mas in advance to you. “While I truly wish all of us a happy Christmas cel­ebration in advance, I am duty bound to ensure that this should not be the last Christmas any of us will celebrate with his loved ones. This may sound scary but it is a grim possibility if we do not take urgent protective steps to stop Coronavirus on its tracks. “There is a great global resurgence of the dreaded vi­rus. With the reopening of in­ternational flights, movement of people across the globe is back on full stream. This has aided further spread of the virus. It is usual that at this Christmas season, our rela­tions and friends from across the world and Nigeria will be coming home. Expectedly there is bound to be a great human traffic surge in Imo State. This ofcourse comes with its full implications for the spread of Covid 19. “Already the effect of this frightful global resur­gence and spike in Covid 19 infections is manifest in the country and Imo State. “Since October the num­ber of cases in the country, which hitherto seemed to be reducing, has been on a rapid rise. From 225 confirmed new cases in October, the number has risen to a frightful level of 77,933 in December. Yester­day,19th December alone 920 new confirmed cases were recorded in the country, with 6 deaths .In Imo State the sit­uation is no less frightening. Recent PCR-Based tests car­ried out in the state in accor­dance with the guidelines of the National Centre for Dis­ease Control (NCDC), reveal a frightful upward surge in the confirmed cases curve. As of last week, no less than 32 persons were confirmed positive with Covid 19. “Sadly, while the grim re­alities of increasing Covid 19 infections continue to con­front us every day, a general complecency and false sense of safety amongst our people to Covid 19 safety protocols remain the order of the day. This trend must be reversed in the interest of everyone. The time to do so is NOW. The imminent danger posed by the human traffic surge occasioned by the season, makes immediate and dras­tic steps in this direction both cogent and urgent. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION