Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday signed the 2021 Appropriation Bill of N1.164 trillion into law, thereby, setting the pace for a speedy implementation. Sanwo-Olu, while signing the budget at the State House, Marina, said the “total size of the budget passed by the Legislature stood at N1,163,522,210,717.00 with a capital to recurrent ratio of 60:40.“It comprises N702,935,416,976 capital expenditure and N460,586,793,741 recurrent expenditure.” The governor said that with “the passage of the bill, we will continue our work on rebuilding Lagos, advancing economic growth, and expanding opportunities for Lagosians to flourish despite the economic challenges caused by the Corina virus.” ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Recall that on November 10, 2020, Sanwo-Olu presented to the House of Assembly the 2021 Appropriation Bill of N1.55 Trillion, which was christened the “Budget of Rekindled Hope.” Also, the 40-man state House of Assembly passed the N1.164 trillion appropriation bill on Tuesday. FCT Minister Commends Police Officers For Securing Abuja Nigerians Must Look Forward To Prosperous 2021 – Makinde The governor said that Year 2020 will go down in history as a peculiar one largely defined by the COVID-19 Pandemic and the ENDSARS protests, which were recklessly hijacked by those who destroyed some of our public assets and private businesses. He stated that Lagosians are, however, fortunate to be going into the New Year, with an already passed budget, which will help to expedite the state’s recovery process. Sanwo-Olu said that a significant portion of the budget has been committed to human capital development, youth engagement, social intervention initiatives, and the completion of ongoing projects that are critical to achieving the objectives of our T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. According to Sanwo-Olu, the quick passage of the bill reflects the harmonious relationship between the State Executive and the Legislature, as well as the mutual dedication to the progress of the state and the prosperity of Lagosians. The governor assured that the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget will present to the general public the full details and breakdown of the budget in due course. He promised Lagosians that the 2021 Budget will indeed rekindle hope, deliver substantial economic growth, and bolster our efforts to rebuild Lagos, adding “We will make tough choices where necessary and seize opportunities as needed while ensuring that no Lagosian is left behind.” Assuring Lagosians that the “2021 budget will be prudently implemented with the people as our focus, because we are determined to provide the right economic environment for Lagosians to thrive,” the governor added: As the world combats the coronavirus, we will make the necessary sacrifices to further place our state on the path of abundance and economic recovery. We are going into 2021 with the unwavering determination to engender sustainable and inclusive growth.” He said that with the enormous challenges of 2020, the state is conscious of the fact that “to efficiently and successfully implement the 2021 Budget, we must be selfless and dedicated. We are up to the task- with our collective resilience, we will achieve our key goals in all sectors, and nothing will stop us from justifying the trust of the people in this government.” Sanwo-Olu implored all stakeholders and residents of Lagos, the organized private sector, artisans,as well as small and medium sized business owners not to relent in supporting this government by voluntarily discharging their civic responsibilities. “The growth and prosperity we seek can only be collectively achieved.On our part, we will ensure that the resources entrusted in our care are efficiently and prudently managed. We will be non-discriminatory in the distribution of resources. This is a budget for all Lagosians irrespective of their social, economic, ethnic, or religious background,” he stated. Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, represented byRotimi Olowo, chairman, House Committee on Finance, said the budget is people-oriented and will move the state to the next level. He commended the governor for the good works he has been doing in the state. Sam Egube, the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, said that the event is as a result of significant engagements over the years.“We will drive this budget through self-performing mechanisms,” he added. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION