Lagos – Indeed 2020 which ends in four days is one year that would not be easily forgotten as far as humanity is concerned. It is one peculiar year that shook the world vigorously, bringing the greatest of nations to their knees. It is a year that changed the modality of human existence and its operations. It is a year that reiterated the limitation of human knowledge and the existence of an omniscient, omnipotent and omnipresent God. Although notable Christian leaders gave inklings to what the year holds, hardly were the prophecies taken seriously as many never knew the year would take the sharp twist it took with the outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) leading to over 1.6 million deaths towards the end of the year. In his 2020 ‘prophesy window’, released December 31, 2019 during the cross-over vigil, Dr. Daniel Olukoya General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles (MFM) said the year will be messy and confusing to many, thereby calling for a round the clock prayer. While Pastor Enoch Adeboye, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) also during the cross over service at the Redemption Camp in Ogun State, Nigeria, said the world was going to behave like a child having a convulsion, reasoned why individuals should pray very hard. He also said it was going to be a year of series of joy, battles and a series of victories. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! With the reported confirmation of the first COVID-19 case on February 27, 2020 and the increment to 97 cases on March 29 came the panic on how to curb the spread, leading to an emergency-first phase of lockdown declared by the federal government, which had churches, mosques, schools, social gatherings,  nonessential goods producing firms closed. In a broadcast on Sunday, March 22, Adeboye revealed that COVID-19 has come to stay. Using a biblical term, Adeboye described the virus as ‘noisome pestilence’ and said it will only go into the background as ebola but won’t die. Be Sensitive To Citizens’ Needs, Prophet Tells Buhari Lagos Archdiocese Ordains Four Priests Amidst quiet laughter, the cleric said it was a means God implored to get the attention of the world to Himself as well as show His supremacy over boastful nations and the entire human race. “God told me the world will behave like a child in convulsion…It is a time of compulsory holiday even for me because my daddy said He wants to show the world that He’s still the one in control. If you think you’re big, he will compel you to sit. He (God) will remove the plague. How long will that happen, I’m sorry I can’t tell you. The noisome pestilence is for a purpose, God must get the attention of the world. Coronavirus will subside not die; it will go into the background like ebola. Coronavirus has come to stay. The next time the world come to show God they are wise, He knows what to do, Pastor Adeboye said.” Pastor Tunde Bakare, Serving Overseer of Citadel Global Community Church, (formerly known as Latter Rain Assembly), said God showed him late last year a vision of a rainbow covering Nigeria with the word ‘reset’ as he viewed that a time of lockdown would come in the history of the world. “I pray that those who have tested positive for this coronavirus will be healed and those who are not will be saved. But if we don’t learn from this plague, when are we going to learn? Buhari needs courage to reset Nigeria now. This is time to do the right thing about restructuring Nigeria. This is not the first time we will have a lock-down in history. The first lock-down was during the time of Noah. He was locked in the ark God asked him to make. God was the one who locked him in the ark. The rain fell for 40 days and night but he was in that ark for about 150 days. Noah had to follow instructions from God concerning the ark. “We need to follow instructions concerning covid-19. It is for our good. I cannot imagine how we will cope with the disaster if it breaks on a massive scale in Nigeria. We can’t contain it. Nations that are better than us are groaning. So we need to follow instructions. What distinguished Noah from the rest of the world was grace. It is grace that will distinguish us from the disaster that is gripping the world. The Bible says Noah found grace before God because he was righteous. “Our own righteousness cannot save us. It is the righteousness of Jesus that we need. No matter who you are, no matter what faith you belong, no matter the sacrifices you have made, it is Jesus’ righteousness that counts. We are saved by grace through faith. It is the righteousness of God that we need.” On the need for churches to lay emphasis on evangelism and human capacity building over erecting gigantic structures, he stated, “But the truth is that we have not done what we are supposed to do. We have concentrated on building structures rather than building men. I have been pastoring for 31 years now. We need to go out of the four walls of our churches and mix with the people. We need to influence the society around us. The church must go on to influence every sphere of human endeavours.” However, prior to the start of 2020, the Christian circle was saddened with the beheading of a bride, Martha Bulus on her bridal party days before her wedding by a jihadist insurgency affiliated with Boko Haram. The victims were caught on their way from Maiduguri to Bulus’ country home in Adamawa at the time they were killed on December 26, 2019. Bulus’ wedding was scheduled to take place on New Year’s Eve in Adamawa state. The killing of Bulus and her friends fell on the same day in which 11 Christian aid workers were reportedly murdered by Islamic extremists after taken hostage in Maiduguri and Damaturu. The terror group, Islamic State in West Africa Province, a breakaway group of Boko Haram claimed that the killing of the 11 aid workers was revenge for the killing of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. In January 2020, Rev. Lawan Andimi the CAN Chairman Michika Local Government Area and the District Church Council Secretary of the Ecclesiya Yan’uwa Nigeria (EYN) Church were kidnapped in Michika, Adamawa State. Andimi, while in captivity made a passionate appeal to the leadership of his church and the Federal Government to come to his rescue. The Church did everything within her reach to secure the safe release of this pastor gentleman but it was not possible because they didn’t have the military power to do so,  said  Evangelist Kwamkur Samuel Vondip, Director, Legal and Public Affairs, Christian Association of Nigeria(CAN). In February was another sad occurrence -the killing of Seminarian Michael Nnadi, Catholic Church (Sokoto Diocese) who was reportedly kidnapped a month before alongside other seminarians. On February 1, Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah of Sokoto Diocese announced in a statement, “With a very heavy heart, I wish to inform you that our dear son, Michael was murdered by the bandits on a date we cannot confirm. He and the wife of a doctor were arbitrarily separated from the group and killed. The Rector identified the corpse this afternoon.” During Nnadi’s funeral, Bishop Kukah in his homily narrated with agony that when “we concluded the negotiations with the kidnappers on Thursday evening, I was in the Seminary to receive the three Seminarians and, although we received only two, I was still confident that Michael was still alive. We were simply going to sit and wait out for the next call and the agonizing round of negotiations again. I left for Abuja that same evening to continue my trip to Sokoto the next day. It was on my way to the airport to catch a flight back to Sokoto on that Saturday morning that Fr Daboh called to tell me that the corpse of Mrs. Ataga had been found and that there was a second unidentified corpse which they were being asked to come and identify if it was Michael. My heart sank.” Following February was March with the effect of physical closure of churches and the full engagement of the online space by churches. Before the closure His Grace, Alfred Adewale Martins, Archbishop of Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos on February 29 enjoined Christians to engage digital media in spreading the gospel. As if he knew a time of lockdown was coming when online will serve for physical fellowship, the Archbishop at the maiden conference, of the Catholic media practitioners at St. Agnes Catholic Church, Maryland, Lagos, affirmed that the new media has come to stay, he said it will do the church lots of good if it maximised various online platforms in effective evangelism, correcting misconceptions about the church and communicating sound doctrines as contained in the Bible. In April, MFM directed her members and non-members who keyed into the 30 Days prophetic prayers retreat of the Ministry to repeat the daily prayers from Thursday, 23 April against covid-19. After the long months of physical lockdown came the concern for reopening of churches in Lagos to allow congregational meetings, as different Christian leaders lent their voices that government should reconsider its order on the indefinite closure of worship centres as a measure to prevent spread of coronavirus in the state. Appreciating the state’s government pro-activeness in battling the pandemic by constructing isolation and disease control centres, they maintained that the hope of the Christian faithful was dashed by the June 16 announcement forbidding churches to resume physical activities on June 21 as earlier planned. They lamented that the church which is fully capable of observing health guidelines was forbidden to open while public places where little or no health precaution is observed which could trigger more cases are allowed to operate. However, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State Chapter asked churches to be adequately prepared in compliance with given health measures to curb spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and to save themselves from any form of embarrassment by the state government. On August 9, the long wait came to an end, as churches in Lagos resumed physical services after five months closure. Some churches however took time before resuming in order to fully prepare their facilities in line with the COVID-19 guidelines, while some members are yet to resume maybe for fear or complacency with online services. Commenting on this, Prophet Layi Bamidele, Senior Pastor of Christ Glorious End-Time Evangelical Church, appealed to Christians not to relax in their walk with God by resisting the urge to stick only to on-line services as doing so would negate the call not to forsake the fellowship with other members of the household of faith. He also told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that some individuals refused to learn from the pandemic. To end the year major church programmes like the Experience and the Holy Ghost Congress were held virtually, though the latter held physically on the final day.  Also, the crossover service which is another major service for many is contemplated due to the second wave of coronavirus. The new chairman of CAN Lagos who succeeded Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, allayed fear that the service will not hold. He mentioned in a statement released Wednesday, December 23  that churches which observe the service must not go beyond 12:15am into January 1, 2021 in addition to social distancing, face mask wearing, and 50 percent sitting capacity. He added that churches that hold this service till middle of midnight must not allow any worshiper leave before 4 a.m. Adegbite, however prayed for a peaceful crossover service and prosperous 2021. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION