The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has commended Nigeria Police Force (NPF) for security and efforts they have been making to secure the Nation’s Capital. While adding that, for each rubbery the FCT Police Command are able to prevent 10 and for each kidnappings they are must have prevented up to 20. Saying, Most of the time people get to hear only the sad or the negative stories but I can tell you I am previ to both the negative and the sad stories. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Bello made the commendation at the decoration of some promoted police officers attached to his office, on Thursday in Abuja, he alsothanked the men and officers of the Nigeria Police Force for their support to administration and efforts to secure the territory. His words :”I want to used this opportunity to thank the men and officers of the Nigeria Police Force across the country and the FCT in particular for the support you have been given to the FCT Administration. Anambra: One Dead, Four Injured In Multiple Motor Accidents 2021: Renew Commitment Towards Nation’s Building, Ibadan Chief Admonishes Govt, Nigerians ” And also for the security and efforts you have been making to secure the city. ” Most of the time people get to hear only the sad or the negative stories but I can tell you I am previ to both the negative and the sad stories. ” And in the FCT Command most of the times the good stories are just buried but I know the kind of work you are doing tirelessly day and night. “For each rubbery the FCT Police Command are able to prevent 10 and for each kidnappings that you see on the newspaper, FCT Police Command must have prevented up to 20. He continued; ” Everyday arrest are being made, harden criminals, drugs peddlers, people of questionable character are also being apprehended. ” But because of the time were in sometimes because of issue of confidentiality and the issue of the legal system we operate most people don’t get to know this,” Bello. The minister, however, appealed to all Nigerians to appreciate the Nigeria Police and other security agencies and continue to provide them with the needed support as organisations wether public or private. Saying, ” Let’s support them, let’s support their families and children and more important let’s support them with credible information to curtail rate of insecurity.” Bello also appreciated the support of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the cooperation that the FCT Administration was enjoying from the FCT Police Command under the leadership of Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma. Similarly, he minister congratulated the newly promoted police officers attached to his office and urged them to justify the confidence repose on them. ” On behalf of the FCT Administration it is my honour and privilege to congratulates the officers that have been decorated. ” The results of hard work is more hard work, you all deserve your new ranks. We have work closely with you here including your other colleagues and other officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force in the FCT. ” As a matter of fact there is so much work that you need to do. Having work with you I have no doubt that whatever responsibility assigned to you it will be carry out to the best of your ability.” Earlier, the Commissioner of Police, FCT Command,Bala Ciroma, urged the newly promoted officers to renew their commitment to duty, saying ” more will be expected of them.” Responding on be behalf of the promoted officers, Ahmed Abdulrasheed, the Chief Security Officer to the minister, who has been promoted to the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police, thanked the IGP and FCT Commissioner of Police for finding him worthy to be promoted. He pledged to redoubled his efforts to discharge his assigned duties diligently with a view to enhance the credibility of the force. He said, ” Dedications and hard word pays and it has always been my role and character in service and I will do more. ” The promotion will motivate us to be more effective and will give us new direction, ” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION