LAGOS  – As the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) struggles for stability and relevance, especially in the South West, the unending battle of supremacy between the governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi Makinde and former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose seems to be getting messier. Fayose has been at loggerheads with Governor Makinde over the latter’s role in the Ekiti PDP crisis as well as the leadership of the party in the South West. While the state Chairmen of the party in Ekiti, Osun, Ogun and Lagos have aligned with Fayose, the party chairmen in Oyo and Ondo States are on the side of Makinde. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Recently, Isaac Fayose, who is the younger brother of the former Ekiti State Governor, in a video that went viral, stated that Makinde’s predisposition for betrayal and disloyalty will soon see him out of the gubernatorial office. Going into great detail to prop his argument, the younger Fayose narrated how he brought Makinde to his brother, Ayo Fayose, and helped Makinde win the blessing of Oyo State PDP kingmaker, Rasheed Ladoja. Yes, I Tested Positive For COVID-19 – Obaze Obasanjo Himself Knows He Is An Igbo Man From Anambra State, Adefuye Insists Isaac Fayose further related how he personally sponsored Makinde’s gubernatorial election, securing him over 50,000 deciding votes from Ibadan South West Local Government Area of Oyo State. Isaac alleged that despite all his efforts on Governor Makinde, the only way he (Makinde), rendered gratitude, was to send his ‘e-rats’ sniffing after his finances, even accusing him of looting state funds. Sources within the party, had said in line with the party’s constitution, Makinde, as the only PDP governor in the South West, is the leader of the party and should be given preference when decisions regarding the party are to be taken. He is said to also have the responsibility of organising the party and leading the assault for the reclaiming of other South West states from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). However, the Fayose’s camp opposed Makinde’s alleged interference in the affairs of the PDP in Ekiti State. According to them, the Oyo governor who sees Fayose as a threat is doing everything possible to take the control of the party from him and hand it over to Senator Abiodun Olujimi. The crisis escalated last month, November 11 precisely, when a zonal faction, led by Governor Makinde, set up a reconciliation committee headed by a former Osun State governor, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, in Ibadan, which was expected to bring together aggrieved factions of the party in the zone. Two days later, the faction led by Fayose also set up a parallel zonal reconciliation committee headed by Engr. Femi Babalola. Other members of the committee are Chief Kolapo Ogunjobi, Ahmed Okandeji Mustapha, Chief Idowu Odeyemi and Chief Tunde Akindehin. Though, Fayose, once said he had no personal issues with Governor Makinde over the running of the party in the South West. Fayose, who spoke at his Afao Ekiti residence in Ekiti State as part of activities for his 60th birthday anniversary, last month, said, “There is nothing to worry about. If Governor Seyi Makinde and I have issues, Nigerians should not worry themselves about that; it is not personal. There is no regional government. Every power lies in the state. Structures in Ekiti are different from structures in Oyo; structures in Oyo are different from structures in Lagos. “I was the one who went to flag off Governor Makinde’s campaign in Ogbomoso. So, I cannot work for his failure. Whether he is backing Senator Biodun Olujimi or not, the fact remains that the struggle for the control of party structures in Ekiti has come and gone. “We won the congresses, but they are in court. If the court says it is Olujimi that is right, we would follow her and if the court says she has no case, they should join us so that we can move the party forward. Let us pursue our interests legitimately in manners that will create peace in the region.” Last Saturday, the Ekiti State chapter of the PDP chided Makinde for mocking Fayose, by what it called his politically motivated trial by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The Ekiti State PDP in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, advised the Oyo State governor to display maturity expected from somebody occupying his exalted office and rise above childishness and pettiness. The party said: “It is rather unfortunate that someone like Governor Makinde, who was never a stable member of the PDP could use EFCC trial to mock Fayose, who was one of the last men standing for the party after it lost power in 2015. “We would have ignored his display of political childishness and pettiness, but by choosing to mock Fayose, who is only being persecuted for standing firmly by the PDP in its hours of troubles, Engr. Seyi Makinde has shown to the public that one can be a governor and still not be a leader.” The Ekiti state PDP while claiming that it is not written in the party constitution that when a zone has only one governor, that governor automatically becomes the leader of the party, challenged Makinde to swear that two APC governors in the South-West did not support his election. Adeyanju said: “As at 2015 that PDP lost power, Makinde was in Social Democratic Party (SDP). If committed leaders like Fayose, who stood by the party had left for other parties as he (Makinde) did, the governorship ticket of the PDP wouldn’t have been attractive to him when he returned to the party in 2018. “That Governor Makinde now goes about mocking Fayose because of his trial by the EFCC, occasioned by his uncompromising stance against the misrule of the APC government shows that he (Makinde) is happy that Fayose and other leaders of the PDP are being persecuted with EFCC trials by the APC government.” The party, however, counselled the governor to address the crisis in Oyo State PDP, rather than acting like “a man who is running after cockroaches in another person’s house while his own house is infested with termites. “If there is a state where urgent reconciliation is needed among PDP leaders, it is Oyo State where even the Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan is complaining openly against the governor. “That someone is a governor does not translate to leadership. And by descending to the childish arena of mocking Fayose, who exhibited the rare courage and boldness of surrendering himself to the EFCC, it shows that those PDP leaders in Oyo State who have rejected his leadership were right after all. “We will, however, wait till he finishes his tenure and see whether he will also be bold enough like Fayose, to report himself to be investigated by the anti-corruption agencies should he be invited for questioning.” In a recent interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Lere Olayinka, the South-West Zonal Director of Media and Publicity of the PDP, alleged that Makinde is deliberately fueling rebellion in the party through his undue interference in the affairs of the state chapters. According to Olayinka, “There is really no crisis in the real sense of it. Rather, what is playing out in the party is the struggle for control, which is normal in any human organisation. It is majorly about someone arrogating to himself a kind of power that he does not have. When you are from Lagos and you want to control the organs of the PDP in my local council in Ekiti, there will definitely be resistance and that’s exactly what is happening in the zone. “To me, it is nothing to be worried about because in PDP the moment the issue of the party organs is settled, everyone will fall in line. It has happened in Ekiti before. In 2012, when we had 318 and 310, the group whose candidate won the state chairmanship with 318 votes went on to take all the State Exco positions. The other group, whose candidate got 310 votes, did not get a single member of the State Exco. Two years after, PDP won the governorship election overwhelmingly.” Speaking further, he said, “The truth is that Governor Makinde chose to interfere particularly in the party issues in Ekiti, Osun and Ogun States. As the only governor that we have in the South West, he can intervene. But instead of intervening, he chose to interfere, and as expected, there was resistance from these states. “But contrary to the decisions of the party at the national level, Governor Makinde chose to invite a self appointed state chairman of the party to meetings in Ibadan. So, to us in Ekiti, the governor is deliberately fuelling rebellion and you don’t expect us to be clapping for him,” he added. Meanwhile, the Lagos State chapter of the party has thrown its weight behind the leadership of Makinde, saying he is capable of leading the party in the South West region to total victory. The Lagos state chapter of the party, in a statement issued by its Publicity Secretary, Taofik Gani, on Sunday, maintained that the Oyo governor is very competent to lead the PDP renaissance in the South West zone being a proven unifier, conqueror and able philanthropist. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION