Leeds United have been licking their wounds this week after their heavy defeat at Manchester United on Sunday. As if the 6-2 scoreline was not bad enough, Marcelo Bielsa saw his skipper Liam Cooper limp off after 72 minutes, as Leeds picked up another injury in the position they could least afford it. Burnley offer Leeds a chance to bounce back on Sunday when they visit Elland Road for a midday clash. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Ahead of that, here is a look at Leeds’ full injury list. The Whites skipper took a knock in the second half at Old Trafford and was replaced by Leif Davis after 72 minutes. APC Felicitates Ekiti People At Christmas [GRAPHIC] Police Nab 3 Suspects Over Alleged Murder Of Female Trader In Edo He was in clear discomfort when he left the pitch and Bielsa confirmed he would be without his skipper for the Burnley clash during his pre-match press conference on Christmas Eve. “Cooper has a strain in his abdominals,” Bielsa told the media, but was unable to offer a return date. “[That is] subject to his evolution,” Bielsa added. The Spain centre-back finally made his Whites debut when he came on at Stamford Bridge earlier this month, but was quickly sidelined again with a muscular problem. Bielsa confirmed that Llorente was returning to training on Monday when he spoke after the Old Trafford defeat and confirmed on Thursday that he is available to face the Clarets. “Llorente is in conditions to play again,” he said. The German defender underwent knee surgery earlier this month after he limped off in the early stages of the defeat to Chelsea. Until that point he had been an ever-present in the Whites’ Premier League campaign, despite originally picking up the injury against Liverpool. However, the knock he took against the Blues has meant he has now had to go under the knife, with the club confirming he faces three months on the sidelines. Bielsa gave another update before the West Ham clash. “The surgery went well. The length of his absence depends on the evolution, but he’s likely to be out for around three months,” he said before being asked how much the 24-year-old will be missed. “Of course, it’s a shame to miss him for such a long period of time, but during a season this is normal for injuries like this to happen to a team.” There was better news regarding Gaetano Berardi last week, as Bielsa put a date on the Swiss’ return from an ACL injury for the first time.https://get-latest. The defender suffered the injury in Leeds’ dead-rubber win over Derby in last season’s penultimate match, with Bielsa now saying he expects the 32-year-old to be available in February. The update came when Bielsa was asked if the club would be looking to sign a new defender in the January window. “We’re not thinking of the possibility of bringing another centre-back into the team. Apart from that, we also expect to count on [Gaetano] Berardi from February.” Adam Forshaw is continuing his recovery from the long-term hip injury which has seen him sidelined for 14 months. He underwent hip surgery earlier this year, but suffered a relapse earlier in the season. No return date has been set, with the midfielder likely to appear with the under-23s when his fitness allows. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION