Fulham’s Premier League match at Tottenham on Wednesday has been called off because of new coronavirus cases at the west London club. The game was due to start at 18:00 GMT at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. Fulham requested for the fixture to be postponed and the decision was confirmed three hours before kick-off. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! On Tuesday, the latest round of Premier League Covid-19 testing found 18 people had the virus – the highest figure recorded in the testing programme. A Tottenham statement said: “The Premier League informed us of the decision this [Wednesday] afternoon, with Fulham having requested the postponement on the grounds of the number of Covid-19 positive cases among their players and staff. Citizenship Bill For 11m Immigrants To Be Sent To Congress – VP-Elect Harris Real Madrid Draw At Elche, Lose Chance To Close Gap On Laliga Leaders Atletico “Everyone at Tottenham Hotspur sends their best wishes to Fulham for a safe and speedy recovery to all those who are affected.” On Monday, Manchester City’s Premier League match at Everton was postponed four hours before kick-off at Goodison Park because of an outbreak of coronavirus at the club. Everton said they would request “full disclosure” of the information City provided to the Premier League that led to the postponement. Newcastle United’s match at Aston Villa, scheduled for 4 December, was postponed following a “significant increase” in cases at the Magpies’ training ground. Fulham boss Scott Parker did not take charge of his team’s goalless draw with Southampton on 26 December after someone in his household tested positive for Covid-19. Parker was due to return to the dugout at Tottenham. AnalysisBBC sports editor Dan Roan The pressure on the Premier League over the havoc caused by the pandemic is intensifying. This is the third match to be postponed, and comes after a record number of positive tests were recorded among players and staff. Across professional English football, the number of matches having to be rearranged is approaching 50, with the threat of more before the FA Cup third round (8-11 January), with all clubs undergoing testing before fixtures. There has been concern raised over the consistency of the Premier League’s decisions over match suspensions, and why they have been made within hours of games being played. Inevitably, there are now increasing demands for the season to be paused. Premier League officials are not planning any kind of ‘circuit-break’, no formal proposal to do so has been lodged by any club, and the government remains supportive of matches continuing behind closed doors. It is notable that in a statement, the league said it “continues to have full confidence in its protocols and being able to continue to play our fixtures as scheduled.” While nothing is being ruled out, with crucial broadcast contracts to honour, and the Euros starting in early June, it is easy to see why league officials are loath to suspend the season. But even if they do not, concern over fixture congestion and player welfare will only increase. Rescheduling postponed matches will not be easy, especially if English teams go deep into European competitions once they resume in February. Football’s authorities will now come under mounting scrutiny for not having created more space in the packed calendar to allow for such disruption before the season began, apart from scrapping FA Cup replays and reducing Carabao Cup semi-finals to one leg. (SOURCE: BBC) SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION