Experts from the fields of Law and Pharmacy last week held a virtual media parley on the theme, ‘Intellectual Property Infringement in the Pharmaceutical Sector.’ TITILOPE JOSEPH, in this piece, reports on the deliberations that engaged experts at the summit. Besides the fact that Nigeria has been tardy at reforming its Intellectual Property Law regime, some other key reasons which account for why there are few innovations in the country’s drug and pharmaceutical sector include the fact that there is a palpable disconnect between the academia or research institutes and industry. The experts said this disconnect should be bridged, and the country’s regime of IP laws updated quickly to scale up Nigeria’s competitive edge in the pharmaceutical sector, as the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (ACFTAA) kicks off next year. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Dr. Chukwuemeka Ubaka of the Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, while speaking on the challenge of lack of innovation in the country’s pharmaceutical sector posited that the problem is by no means one of lack of talent but rather that of policy failure which has over the years seen a disconnect between the research institutes or academia and industry. “The National Association of Industrial Pharmacists mentioned recently that there needs to be a national policy on aligning industry, and technology; aligning manufacturing and research. We still work in silos. We need to move on to bringing industry, academia, and research together,” Ubaka said. NBBF President Laments 3-Year Absence Of Men’s Premier League Policemen Should Be Given ADR Training He lamented that as a result of this disconnect, the published work of Nigerian researchers in the pharmaceutical field are scarcely paid for, as they end up being stolen, and used for new drug innovations which sometimes find their way back into the nation’s drug market as imports. He said, “You know initially in research, what we did was we kept publishing. But what we now found was that when you publish, your idea gets cascaded in developed countries without recourse to you by way of citation. You are paid no regard or acknowledgement. But you do know that your work is what produced a drug that came back to Nigeria. “So what scientists have started doing is that they keep their innovative ideas to themselves. Again, because most people in Nigeria would not pay for the research, that idea, that patent that you have invented, that invention you have made won’t see the light of day.” Ubaka, however, lauded the actions taken by the government in making the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) a hub for researchers, who hitherto worked in silos, to coordinate their activities. “This has seen the emergence from the institute pharmaceutical patents for the management of illnesses like sickle cell anemia. Its Abuja location also makes it easier for innovations from the institute to be patented,” he noted. He therefore stressed that this is a testimony against the culture of working in nondescript research silos or cells. Ubaka also said, “We in the academia have been conducting research mostly in silos. And these are the things we say: these things should be stopped; this silo research should stop, so we could come together. “And of course, we know that NIPRD is in Abuja, which is near the seat of power, and acquiring patents seems easier for them, as compared to those who work in silos. These are some of the advantages we have in working from a hub like NIPRD. It’s something we think should be encouraged.” He added that government policy which has seen the National Office on Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) being sited close to research units in the universities is a step in the right direction, as it would make for growth in innovation. “But I would still give credit to the National Office on Technological Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) for bringing their offices to the universities, sort of to bridge the gap and make patenting much closer to the university. But I must also confess that I wonder if people have started to tick off the development,” he said. He maintained that these laudable developments should be scaled up to give Nigeria a technological competitive edge as the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement kicks off next year. Ubaka said, “It’s also important that we should remember that technology increases responsiveness, because if you are technology driven and your process is technologically driven, it is easier for you to compete and be in demand. “We are not currently there, and yet this ACFTAA has been ratified by Nigeria. By entering the ratification with countries like South Africa and Egypt, which have for long massively adopted technology, they might tend to outweigh us in a free market.” It would be recalled that Nigeria recently ratified the agreement, which sets to turn the continent into a huge free trade area. But without Nigeria taking spirited steps to bringing its IP regime of laws in step with the demands of the emerging free trade order, the benefits of free trade, especially in the pharmaceutical sector, may elude the country. The drug expert stressed that Nigeria might find the big continental players like South Africa and Egypt edging them to the margins. This was also the position canvassed by Otu Ukoyen of the Lagos-based commercial law firm, Olajide Oyewole LLP, who maintained that the coming into effect of the ACFTA Agreement would have a huge impact on Nigeria’s pharma sector, for good or ill. Ukoyen said, “The short answer is that the impact will be massive for the various reasons that have been discussed here already. “I mean, looking at the key objectives of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreements in the first place, it is to create a single liberalised market for goods and services and aid the movement of capital and persons throughout the region. “Of course, there are very huge benefits from such an arrangement, including access to goods and services, access to pharmaceuticals, medicines raw materials, key resources, skilled labour, you name it. “Now it’s important to note here that even the ACFTAA itself does not contain a protocol for protection of IP, as of today. Now that protocol is something that is going to be discussed at the African Union Assembly, and eventually adopted hopefully early in the new year. “The question for me now is, are we ready? I will say no. So, what is important right now is that stakeholders must begin to learn to adapt to the new form of competition that is created under the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement and position themselves to take advantage of the new markets one way or the other. “What are the things that I see happening in the new year when the agreement, officially kicks off in Nigeria? We’ll definitely have an influx of all manner of goods with questionable quality from African countries. “A survey that was conducted in June last year showed that 21 percent of the drug called oxytocin, which is a hormone usually required by women at the point of childbirth in Nigeria is substandard. That is a huge problem when you have influx of such commodities coming into Nigeria with our already existing issues.” Ukoyen said stakeholders, therefore, need to key into all the anchored initiatives and policies, and take advantage of them. “Besides that, we have the obvious intellectual property issues. For instance, let’s look at the fact that we don’t have a Regionally Coordinated Database of IP registered IP rights across the country, and across the region. “Look at Nigeria, even our own local IP Laws have their own issues. So, I foresee a significant number of IP issues arising, primarily with trademarks, and you can imagine a situation where existing trademarks in other member countries are similar or identical to those that are registered or used locally. “Now, coupled with the absence of a database, obviously you’re going to have issues, challenging trademark ownership priority of rights, and so on and so forth,” he stated. Moderated by Isioma Idigbe, a Senior Associate with leading Lagos-based commercial law firm, PUNUKA Attorneys and Solicitors, the event also had Chukwuma Muanya, Assistant Editor with The Guardian, as one of the speakers. He delivered a paper on the nuanced nature of Intellectual Property issues in the media, the pharmaceutical sector and others. The event was sponsored by the American Business Council. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION