LAGOS-  Considering the economic recession and the effort of the lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo constituency 2, Honourable Ganiyu Johnson to further reduce poverty, two hundred traders and artisans drawn from Ejigbo and Isolo Local Council Development Areas have benefitted from the first phase of empowerment with tools and cash support. The programme which took place on Monday at Okota, tagged, “Empowerment for Women youth and farmers on Agricultural Equipment on Hand Carrier Motorized Welder” was facilitated by Johnson and supported by Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in collaboration with Gatem Nigeria Limited. Prominent sons and daughters in the constituency including, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka, the Osolo of Isolo, Hon Jude Idimogu, lawmaker representing the constituency at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Honourable Martins Adegboyega, the first executive chairman of Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area (LGA) and a host of others, were in attendance.  The empowerment, expected to be in three phases, was targeted at over five hundred artisans, who were randomly selected based on their requests captured during a series of Meet Your Member of Parliament programme. According to Johnson, the empowerment would provide job opportunities for the people in the informal sector, improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the artisans in the constituency, and increase the manufacturing sector through direct labour; and reduce the rate of unemployment within the constituency. Tools and equipment given to the beneficiaries included grinding machines, sewing machines, barbing kits, hairdressing equipment, automobile tool boxes, make-up kits, photography cameras and printers. Other categories included those in petty trading, plumbing, cobbling, catering, vulcanizing, wielding, carpentry and baking. Cash of N50,000 was given to over 72 traders, while those in other categories received cash ranging from N10,000 to N20,000, aside the equipment given to them.  In a remark, the Osolo of Isolo, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka, described the series of initiatives aimed at eradicating poverty as timely especially during a recession, with a call on other politicians to emulate the lawmaker. He said that the constituency has never had it so good in representation as during the tenure of Johnson. Adegboyega corroborated Agbabiaka when he said that  said that the former Lagos State commissioner for works and infrastructure has helped to reduce the level of poverty in the constituency Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, the President General Isolo – Ejigbo Artisans, Alhaji Adewale Adelabu and Iyaloja Isolo LCDA, Mrs Oluranti Dosunmu, lauded the gesture, while assuring that the beneficiaries would be duly monitored to put the items and cash into judicious use. Idimogu who lauded Johnson for organizing the programme amidst economic and COVID-19 difficulties, said that Johnson had done well by giving back to his constituency. “We have a cordial relationship and we would continue to work together for the interest of the constituency,” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION