Rep. Chinedu Ogah (APC- Ezza South/Ikwo, Ebonyi), says President Muhammadu Buhari’s agricultural policy has given economic boost to farmers. The lawmaker stated this on Thursday in Echera community in Ezza South Local Government Area at a Christmas party he organised for his constituents. “President Muhammadu Buhari is the only man who has recognised the need for our farmers to sell their produce and make profits. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “With the ban on rice importation and other agricultural produce, our farmers, especially rice producers, are now making huge profits because a bigger market has been created for local rice. “Ebonyi is a big beneficiary of Mr President’s policy on agriculture because many of our farmers have expanded their production because of large market provided for farmers to sell their produce,’’ he said. Bello, SSG Mourn Sheikh Lemu Ndidi, Oshoala Emerge 2019 King, Queen Of The Pitch He noted that the ban on rice importation and the various agricultural intervention loan programmes initiated by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration were impacting positively on the economy. Ogah appreciated the people for their support and pledged not to relent in attracting projects that would improve the livelihood and wellbeing of the constituents. “Our constituency projects are aimed at replicating what our dear governor is doing at the state level, which will have positive impact on the people,’’ Ogah said. The lawmaker who was inaugurated on Nov 19, 2019 after he regained his mandate through the court said that a total of 235 constituents had been given jobs in the Federal Civil Service since his inauguration. He said that a number of constituency projects aimed at providing access to qualitative lives had been attracted to the constituency with several of them completed while some were at various stages of completion. He enjoined the people to continue to support the Buhari-led government since the ruling APC was committed to restoring the lost glory of the country. He added that President Buhari had performed well in all sectors of the economy, noting that his achievements in human empowerment and infrastructural development remained unparalleled. Ogah also said the defection by Gov. Dave Umahi from the PDP to APC was a right step in the right direction. He applauded the move, stating that it would help Ebonyi to get its fair share of democracy dividends from the central government. “Today, Ebonyi is an APC state because of the defection of the governor to our great party. “And immediately the state became APC-controlled, it started enjoying all the benefits and privileges of belonging to the party that controls the Federal Government,’’ he said. The lawmaker donated cash gifts, cows and other edibles to various communities in Ezza South and Ikwo Local Government Areas saying the gesture was part of giving back to the people. (NAN) SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION