A place in the Carabao Cup semi-finals is up for grabs on Wednesday evening when Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham side make the trip to Stoke City. Handed a bye into round four in September as Leyton Orient had to forfeit the fixture due to positive Covid-19 tests, Spurs’ only match in the competition has so far come against Chelsea as they beat their London rivals on penalties in N17. Following three games without a win in the Premier League after such a bright start to the season, the break from league football may have come at the right time for the Lilywhites as they look to get back to winning ways. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! However, it won’t be straightforward with Stoke currently seventh in the Championship after finding themselves down the wrong end of the league table last term. Perm Sec. Seeks Workers Support To Achieve Food Security ASUU-FG To Resolve Strike Isues Today, Says Ngige Having been able to name two entirely different sides in both the league and Europe this campaign due to the amount of players he has available to him in north London, the Spurs boss has admitted that his XI will more than likely be a bit of a mixture in Staffordshire on Wednesday evening. “I think a mixture. I think we need some players who need to play and deserve to play,” he explained. “From the ones that are playing more times, others where we don’t have great options to make changes and have to keep them but I will try to give a little bit of a rest to two or three.” The game at the bet365 Stadium will see Tottenham use the away changing facilities that Middlesbrough boss Neil Warnock recently described as a “pigsty” following their 1-0 defeat at the start of the month. Warnock, who certainly isn’t shy at saying it how it is, claimed that the toilets didn’t work as they were blocked, fumes were coming in ahead of the game, the showers were leaking and that there was water everywhere on the floor. Labelling it as an “absolute disgrace” when speaking to the media, the experienced manager also stated that pigs would have seen the little portacabin they used and run away. Although the Potters are currently playing in the Championship following their relegation from the top flight back in 2018, Mourinho is fully aware of the away changing rooms at the stadium. “Yes, I have a video of it, a video made from a colleague that works for another team that recently played against them,” admitted the 57-year-old. “I was not going to raise the question. You raised that question. But it should not be a question for me. It should be a question for the authorities, All the authorities. Football authority. Safety authorities. But not for me. “I am not going to be the bad guy that is going to make comments about Stoke’s away dressing room.” Currently the second favourites to win the competition behind Man City, Mourinho and Spurs will be going all out to lift the trophy as they bid to end the club’s barren run without silverware. The head coach, who knows all about winning the EFL Cup having done so on four occasions during his time at both Chelsea and Manchester United, knows that it is going to be a difficult competition to come out on top in. “To win this tournament we need to win three matches. One against Stoke and then, if we beat Stoke, we will have two more matches to play. Against teams who have the same ambitions as we have,” said the Portuguese coach. “If I am not wrong, Man City, Arsenal, Man United. Everton, Newcastle, Brentford, everybody wants the same. The difference between Championship and Premier League is minimal. “The teams are very good, they have very good players and have very good coaches. So even the fact we play Stoke, or Newcastle play Brentford, does not give us easier matches than the others.138334830148 “It is a difficult competition to win. We need to win three matches. But going in the direction from what we are saying from the beginning of the season, the next match is a match we want to win, And the next match is Stoke.” Asked about the importance of winning at Stoke after their run of three Premier League games without a win, Mourinho added: “It has nothing to do with the match we lost or the match we have to play against Wolves next weekend. It is isolated. “It is a cup game. It is a game to go to the semi-finals or watch the semi-finals on TV. We have to go with a positive attitude and try to win.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION