Yann Wehrling, France’s ambassador for the environment, ministry for Europe and foreign affairs, has said that France and China should continue to cooperate towards tackling climate change and preserving biodiversity. Wehrling made the call in an interview with Xinhua, stressing that “the current context of climate and environmental emergency requires continuous cooperation between us in the international governance of climate and biodiversity. “France has, in this regard, very close collaboration with China on all of these themes. And this collaboration has been as intense in recent years as we share a common vision of multilateralism,” he added. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Climate change and the protection of biodiversity have become indispensable key topics for the international community and the China-France high-level strategic dialogue. The two countries have already established a partnership for tackling climate change. 75Yr-old Israeli Man Dies After Getting Pfizer COVID-19 Vaccine Striker Snubs Real Madrid To Join Messi At PSG Wehrling recalled that in November 2015, leaders of the two countries issued a joint statement on climate change in Beijing. He said that the event was “very important to achieve the success of the Paris Agreement at the 21st Conference of Parties held in Paris, France.” In June 2019, France, China and the United Nations held a trilateral meeting on the side-lines of a summit of the Group of 20 major economies in the Japanese city of Osaka. This, he said, had given “new impetus to the climate issue.” China has announced that it would strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. China has also pledged to lower its carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by over 65 per cent from the 2005 level, and increase the share of non-fossil fuels in primary energy consumption to around 25 per cent. China also intends to bring its total installed capacity of wind and solar power to over 1.2 billion kilowatts. These announcements “are going in the right direction” and France immediately welcomed these commitments, said Wehrling. He added that France was ”decisive and participate in the new dynamic of the Paris Agreement.” He said that France and China were two major players in the fight against climate change, which is also a priority subject for the EU as a whole, and a major axis of EU-China relations. Wehrling said that a green partnership should be structured based on research and development of green technologies. The ambassador also solicited for political commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to quickly limit global warming. He said that any initiative including a green partnership that will bring China closer to the EU is very positive. Wehrling said he was particularly positive about the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Kunming, China and the preparation of COP 26 in Glasgow, Scotland. (Xinhua/NAN) SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION