Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oorelope Local Government have been urged to keep supporting the governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, to deliver good governance to the people of the state. The party loyalists in the local government were equally charged not to succumb to distractions and discouragements from elements who do not have the interest of the party at heart. The Special Assistant (Print Media) to the governor, Moses Alao, gave this charge while addressing teeming PDP members, who converged on the Baptist Central School, Igboho, headquarters of the local government, for the party’s last meeting of the year 2020. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Alao, who donated 10 bags of rice to the 10 Wards of the local government, appreciated the party members for their hard work and efforts, which he said culminated into the success of the PDP at the governorship polls. He equally admonished the party members not to relent in supporting the governor, noting that their labour will be duly rewarded, as according to him, the governor has not forgotten anyone. Nursing Mother, 3 Others Killed In Separate Accidents In Delta Female PoS Operator Disarms 2 Armed Robbery Suspects In Edo In his response, the Vice Chairman of the party in the local government, Mr. Ganiyu Ajanla, appreciated Alao for his good gesture to the party and also prayed for him. Earlier, the chairman of the party in the local government, Hon. Azeez Adeoti, welcomed the Special Assistant to the well-attended meeting, commending party members for their patience and confidence in the leadership of the party and the state. Ïn a statement he signed, Alao said: “I am happy to attend the last meeting of our great party, the PDP in my local government, Oorelope Local Government, for the year 2020 and I must say it was a pleasure to see the huge turnout of party members and feel their love for my principal, Governor Makinde, in practical terms. “The meeting provided a good opportunity for us to appreciate our people for their efforts in the party. I appreciated the fact that they all laboured and worked hard for the success of the party and I assured them that His Excellency, the governor of the state, has not forgotten them. “Let me also state that His Excellency is appreciative of the roles you have played individually and collectively as well as the roles you will continue to play.By his nature, Governor Makinde rewards hard work and loyalty. He will surely reward our people accordingly. “Let me equally urge our people to continue to support the governor. We must not be discouraged or distracted by the activities of a few elements who do not have the interest of the party at heart. “From what I gathered at this meeting, our people remain solidly loyal to the governor; they are appreciative of his good works and they will continue to support the governor no matter the shenanigans of a few individuals who are bent on distracting his government.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION