“Do They Know It’s Christ­mas?” is a song written in 1984 by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure in reaction to television reports of the 1983–1985 famine in Ethi­opia. It was first recorded in a single day on Novem­ber 25, 1984 by Band Aid, a super group put togeth­er by Geldof and Ure and consisting mainly of the biggest British and Irish musical acts at the time. The single was released in the United Kingdom on December 3, 1984 and aided by considerable publicity it entered the UK Singles Chart at number one and stayed there for five weeks, becoming the Christmas number one of 1984. The record became the fastest selling single in UK chart history, selling a million copies in the first week alone and passing three million sales on the last day of 1984. It is five days or 120 hours to Christmas. While some have packed their bags for the long planned picnics at Christmas, how­ever, there are many out there without hope that either now or in the future they could share in that Christmas fun. Christmas is here again, and so are the images of Santa Claus, the lights on the Christmas trees, the ju­bilant children and youths on parade. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The annual celebration also comes with the ex­change of gifts at the per­sonal and corporate levels. The Christmas season has gone beyond a celebra­tion of the birth of Jesus Christ, the precursor of the Christian religion, or a partisan festival for the Christian community in the world. Rather, it is a universal festival of the old and young, to unwind and give care to needy neigh­bours. Christmas is a season of joy to all nations of the world and happiness to children in particular. It is a time, when carols her­ald celebrations that peak at picnics. Militarisation, FG’s Only Investment In Niger Delta –Egbebo NDDC: Rescind Appointment Of Sole Administrator Within 14 Days, Timi Frank Tells FG When families have maintained a low profile all through the year be­cause of financial impair­ment, they make extra efforts to ensure that they compensate for lost luxury during Christmas. So where family econ­omy cannot be made better for the season, the effect reverberates, like it is happening this year, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and global fi­nancial meltdown. The developments that led to the closure of many companies, even in the developed economies in the world, is affecting the family unit as well as small and big businesses. Outfits that deal in gift items are not recording the kind of sales that went into their records the previous years. Femi Adewale, a busi­nessman who has been in the business of gift items for 15 years, said sales have dropped seriously this year by about 70 percent. Ac­cording to him, corporate bodies have cut down on gift items this season. He said “They don’t buy gift items for everybody as they used to do. They tend to select gifts for big com­panies and select custom­ers.” Andrew Esan, who helps his sister in Ikeja, La­gos State, also confirmed the decline in patronage. Where they patronize, the customers cut down on what they used to buy. He said, “Some of the people who bought more expen­sive hampers last year pre­fer to go for less expensive ones now.” Adewale said buyers have been citing economic reasons for low patronage. “They say they want to pay house rents and school fees by January and they are saving money towards that, adding that “poten­tial buyers prefer to spend money on food items for the season.” Adewale and Esan are quite truthful. Some fam­ilies, however low-keyed it may be, still embrace the fun of Christmas. These families may not be aware of the fate of scores of young men and women who are, either by reason of birth or circumstance, insulated from the celebra­tion of the Yuletide. For people in this cat­egory, Christmas is not different from other sea­sons of the year, when they wake up each day with pangs of hunger and deprivation, without hope of what to expect as the day grows old. They are the street urchins, found in different cities and towns, who depend on the benev­olence of those who have, who readily exploit their palous conditions before doling out tokens. They represent the tribe of Nigerians, across the ethnic and religious divide, scorned by children of the affluent and jeered by those who regard them as poor, lazy lots who deserve no sympathy. They come in different ages and tongues, but the bond is the poverty and absence of dreams in their lives. In the northern part of Nigeria, they are the ‘al­majiris” and in the south “area boys”. Members of their clan who respond to whispers of the Yuletide often resort to crime in order to force some fun. The unlucky ones end up in prison custodies, if they escape police bullets. Yet they grow in num­ber, because agencies of reorientation deal with their case by attacking the effects, rather than the causes of their social prob­lem. They are despised by the authorities, who rather than seek understanding of their situation, legislate above their heads. Oftentimes what is bud­geted for their welfare goes into private pockets of some of those who paint the town red on Christmas days. Thus the palliatives awarded for the rescue of this tribe of the hapless youths hardly ever get to them. The result is that the social miscreants remain the dregs of the society, who easily become cannon fodder for the destabilizing tactics of that section of the elite that profits from the crises of the nation state. For them, the joy and celebration of Christmas represent noise of the pampered creatures of the earth, people who have lit­tle use for their time and money. When they show any interest it is to identify victims of their criminal act, those they view as a part of the cause of their problems. They litter the cities and towns of Nige­ria, their images penetrat­ing the screened windows of executives’ jeeps, and even the conscience of gov­ernors. Their cases beg for attention, as this Christ­mas is but a flash of for­eign images to their kith and kin in the depraved world of neglect. Thirteen-year-old Ab­dulkarim’s typical day as an Almajiri starts at 4.30 a.m. with prayers and a Qur’anic recitation, and ends at 10 p.m. with anoth­er Qur’anic recitation. In between, there are three slots in his schedule for begging. On a typical day, begging takes up a full six hours. “We would go to beg at 6 a.m. and return at 7 a.m. We would go out again at 11 a.m. and return for prayers at 2 p.m. Finally, between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., we are back on the streets again, begging,” Abdulkarim said, sitting under a tree in his village in Mafa, Borno State. He and 30 other children had just been returned to Borno from Gombe State, where they had been living for several years as Alma­jiri. Under the Almajiri sys­tem, parents send their children, mostly boys aged 4-12, to distant loca­tions to acquire Qur’anic education. Many rural and poor families who can’t af­ford formal schooling have made this choice. It is dif­ficult to know the number of Almajiri children in Ni­geria, but some estimates put it at about 10 million, or about 81 per cent of the more than 10 million out-of-school children in the country. While parents may be­lieve they are fulfilling their obligation to provide a religious and moral edu­cation to their children and that the learning is provid­ed free of charge, Almajiri children are often forced by their teachers (Mallams) to beg in the streets to fund their education. While Abdulkarim ap­pears calm and at peace with himself, in the Ma­hadiya village of Yobe State, Abdusalim, 12, is ill at ease. He has spent    half his life as an Almajiri and is struggling to adjust to a life where begging is not part of his daily routine. He is one of 371 children returned to Yobe from other parts of northern Nigeria and has spent longer than his peers as an Almajiri. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, state governments in northern Nigeria banned the Almajiri system as a measure to limit the spread of the corona­virus, returning many children within the system to their fami­lies and communities of origin. Abdusalim arrived home and reunited with his family in Yobe State while Abdulkarim was welcomed home by his grateful mother. UNICEF has supported the return of these children and their successful reunion with their families. “UNICEF made sure that health, nutrition, water, hygiene and sanitation services were available in the temporary shel­ters the government provided,” said Miatta Abdulai, UNICEF’s Child Protection Specialist in Maiduguri. “We also provided the chil­dren with safe psychosocial, rec­reational and life skills training as the first steps towards their reintegration into their com­munities, outside the Almajiri system. “We put in place communi­ty monitoring mechanisms to ensure these children remain with their families and do not return to life as Almajiri,” said Abdulai. When asked the delicate ques­tion of whether the desire for a religious education was the sole reason for sending her son away, Abdusalim’s mother Hadiza ad­mitted other factors were part of the decision. “It is very difficult to provide for 12 children,” she said. Aisha Uma, Abdulkarim’s mother, cited security concerns, the context of the 10-year armed conflict in North East Nigeria that has seen so many children displaced, abducted or killed. “The conflict led us to send him to Gombe”, she said. “Prior to the security problems in the state, he was attending formal school and also Sangaya (Islamic school) in Mafa.” Both children are home and happy to be reunited with their families, and say they never en­joyed being Almajiri. “I don’t miss it at all. Life as an Almajiri was very tough,” said Abdulkarim. “I had to fend for myself, watch over myself, be my own security, and beg to support myself. I never enjoyed being an Almajiri because the system exposes one to so many dangers and it is very difficult.” What happens to these chil­dren in their life outside the Almajiri system will determine their next move. Currently, they have big dreams. “I want to read the Quran, go to formal school and become a businessman,” said Abdulsal­im. Abdulkarim hopes to go back to school and farm in his spare time. “I see myself own­ing big businesses and pro­viding mentorship support to younger ones in my communi­ty,” he said. The 2020 Christmas is here with its attendant hustle and bustle. This religious festive pe­riod that ought to bring peace, curiously, has become a time for anxiety and trepidation, a time when crime and criminality assume alarming dimensions. As part of the fabled ‘ember months,’ it is replete with vio­lence, disasters and accidents. It has become a period of unusual expectations that result in over­whelming concupiscence. Christmas is meant to be a time to reflect and relive the underlying intention which is the birth of Jesus Christ, the very Prince of peace. It is sup­posed to be a time for moral re­generation. It is a time to share the goodwill that goes with the event. But it has been turned into a period when individuals and groups show off in a man­ner that displays a total lack of understanding of the true mean­ing of Christmas. In Nigeria, morally debased people use the period to do things that are out of sync with what is, for all purposes, a religious ceremony. They tend to turn it into a period to show off with the accompanying descent to de­bauchery. Christmas is a time to be joyful, happy and merry. But criminal elements, for whatever reasons, often take undue advan­tage of the relaxed mood to per­petrate all kinds of evil against people who use the period to trav­el to be with their loved ones. In recent times, the country has witnessed a rise in the rate of kidnapping, banditry as well as other forms of criminal ac­tivities. The COVID-19 and sub­sequent economic recession has thrown many youths out of jobs. During the recent #ENDSARS protests across Nigeria, looters targeted state warehouses across Nigeria stocked with COVID-19 relief supplies which they say should already have gone to the poor and hungry. Although authorities denied accusations of food hoarding or plans to sell the supplies, the Ni­gerian Governors Forum (NGF), which brings together the heads of Nigeria’s 36 states, said some of the looted items were a “stra­tegic reserve ahead of a project­ed second wave of COVID-19.” But stores of so-called “pallia­tives”, some rotting, months after COVID-19 lockdowns ended, pro­voked outrage in a nation reeling from spiraling food prices, high unemployment and anti-police brutality protests that turned violent in October, eroding trust in government. James, 29, in Yola, the capital of Adamawa State in northeast­ern Nigeria, said he was tired of unfulfilled government promises to help. “I was really shocked when I got to the warehouse and I saw the quantity of stuff,” he said. “Most of the stuff were out of date and I was like…why are we not getting it?” He took seven cartons of noodles, two bags of sugar and a bag of rice. Videos showing dozens of similar raids, from northern Kaduna state to western Kwara and Lagos in the south, had filled social media since late October. At some warehouses, guards were overrun by looters, while state or local officials sent armed men to others to chase the looters away. Many of the raids happened in the chaotic days following the shooting of protesters in Lagos on October 20, when some areas in Nigeria, most­ly in southern states such as Lagos and Cross River became engulfed by lawlessness and there was widespread looting. With Nigerians spending 60% of income on food, accord­ing to analysts SBM Intelli­gence, and trust in government law, some support the looters. “That is not stealing,” Opey­emi Elegbede, a payment recov­ery officer for food vendors in Lagos, told Reuters. “They went for their rights.” Senior SBM analyst Glory Etim said few believe official ex­planations. “If these things were not dis­tributed at that time, it means there were other motives behind it,” she said. “It’s this motive that they’ve been trying to explain, and it doesn’t really make sense.” While many families try to spend quality time together this festive season, there are many Nigerians for whom the festive season means nothing. These are the millions of street children, who have been driven by circumstances to fend for themselves. Not for these chil­dren is the visit of Santa Claus, they do not go to beaches and picnics, they can only eye good shoes and clothes, they cannot afford them. Their only concern this sea­son will be getting one miserly meal from day to day. They are all over Nigeria from Lagos to Sokoto, Ibadan, Maidu­guri, Ilorin, Calabar and Owerri. DO THEY KNOW IT IS CHRISTMAS? SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION