ADO-EKITI  – Bamisil Farms, a near-completed multimillion naira agro-processing farm sited on four acres of land in Ekiti has promised to inject not less than 2000 metric tonnes of processed foods such as rice, cassava, plantain and yam into flour into the nation’s market annually when completed. Yemisi Owoyemi, the promoter of the farm, who disclosed this to journalists said Bamisil Farms has over 150 hectares cultivated farm land and that with the newly acquired farm lands, it will provide over 200 direct and part-time employment opportunities. “First phase of the project is set to be completed by Q2, 2021 and will produce almost 2000 metric tons per annum of processed foods. Never, in the history of Ekiti State has the agro sector witnessed such a huge chunk of investment before. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “This investment is an absolute game changer for farmers across Ekiti, who have the capacity to harness the opportunities presented by the factory. This plant will open up a new crop of opportunities to the farmer and thus increase the farm income and employment,” Owoyemi said. She explained that the factory would provide crucial farm-industry linkage which helps accelerate agricultural development by creating backward and forward linkages opportunities as well as adding value to the farmers’ produce, and increasing the farmers’ net income. How To Invest In Tomato Processing Business Cooperative Society To Support 320,852 Rice Farmers In 12 States “The choice of citing the factory in Ado-Ekiti is primarily informed by the need to be closer to basic raw commodities. You must know that food shortages are on the rise in Nigeria and this poses a daunting challenge as well as opportunities to everyone. “Ekiti State is predominantly an agrarian State. This factory has been positioned to harness the agricultural produce of the farmers and ensured these produces are optimally maximised to prevent waste that has hitherto been synonymous to farm produce in recent years for a lack of facility such as this. “It has over 100 hectares of cultivated farm land to form the bulk of raw materials to the factory. “We are ready for robust collaborations and partnerships with farmers across our catchment areas and beyond”. To meet the demands of the factory, the management is set to finance out-growers in Ekiti, Ondo and Osun to fulfill market demands. “The economic values of the factory to Ekiti State and sister States are unquantifiable.” She urged farmers in Ekiti to curb wastage and encouraged them to patronize the agro-food processing factory when open to business. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION