It cannot be seen to be a misnomer when it is said that Industrialisation generates employment opportunities, provides educational opportunities, encourages advancement and innovation, and better utilises resources. All of these benefits and more make industrial development extremely valuable to a population and the local economy. The benefits that are derivable from industrialisation no doubt surpass the foregoing. Rather, the economic growth provided by industrial development is a well-sustained growth that can transform an economy. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! As commonly known, industrial growth and economic growth go hand in hand because economies thrive when an industry is growing because a growth in the industry means more jobs, more money, and more opportunity. It is unarguably against the foregoing background that the speech delivered by Abdul Samad Rabiu, the Founder and Chairman of BUA Group, was listened to with rapt attention by business leaders that attended his investiture as Fellow of the Institute of Directors on Sunday, December 21, 2020. Legend Tours Abia with Erica Lilvera Group Bags ‘Most Customer Focused Experiential Marketing’ Award Rabiu, in his speech titled, “Industrialising Nigeria: It is time for cross-pollination, not cross-purposes”noted that there was need for more people to come and invest in various sectors of the Nigerian economy. He enthused, “We have the Climate, People, Land, Water, Mineral Resources, and we have almost everything. The final piece is we must begin to produce what we consume and consume what we produce. “Where we cannot do either, we must become a regional powerhouse in value-addition, if not for anything, but to take advantage of the benefits of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The African Continental Free Trade Area presents a massive opportunity for us as a country and unless we take full advantage, we may become a dumping ground due to Nigeria’s unique position of being Africa’s largest economy, and our huge population. “We must begin to look at a cross-pollination of our industries amid economic integration and finally, as Nigerian business leaders, we need to be less shy and more bullish in taking advantage of opportunities. This is my charge to us all, and I humbly expect to cheer on, and learn from your successes in the coming financial year”. He explained that as business leaders that opportunities are not been explored and exploited enough, and that few business leaders and investors are doing it, and alluded to the fact that BUA Cement is doing it but definitely cannot do it alone. He expatiated, “I say this because there are huge opportunities in mining, manufacturing, and the agricultural value chain, just as there are in the services space. Agriculture is a prime area in need of serious intervention, and we need more Nigerians to step up here. He queried, “Do you know that, 60% of the world’s arable land resides in Africa? And as is often said, “If potential were edible, Africa will be the best fed continent in the world. “The same applies here to Nigeria. I flew last week from Lagos to Sokoto and could see the fertile plains from Kwara, Niger, all the way to Sokoto, waiting for us to take advantage of. How long will we continue to rely on importing food? Our continued inability to grow what we eat exposes us to various shocks, the most debilitating being the 2020 pandemic. “This is one of the reasons why at BUA we are renewing our focus on the agriculture and foods space. Ostensibly demonstrating the fact that BUA has been threading the same path in support of the industrialisation bid of Nigeria, he said: “Just like I said last year for cement, BUA is also looking to combine our foods businesses, from sugar, flour, pasta to list as BUA FOODS on the NSE by the end of 2021. In sugar, we have our integrated plantation in Kwara State set to produce 200,000tonnes of refined sugar, 20million litres of ethanol annually and 35MW of power, all utilising the by-products of cane sugar. “We also have a refinery in Lagos and Port Harcourt. In Flour and Pasta, we have also started looking at backward integration for Nigerian-grown wheat to reduce our dependence on imported wheat and revive production in the sector. Nigeria currently imports over 5million tonnes of wheat and these places a huge strain on our scarce FX as a country” He added that the opportunities in the agriculture and agribusiness space are endless. He asked, “How are we as leaders looking to take advantage of this space? How can we work together, and what examples, or opportunities are on the horizon?” He explained, “In terms of our plans, we recently announced that BUA will be building a Refinery and Petrochemicals complex. Why? Because we saw an opportunity even though there is another big project in that space, coming on stream. Local consumption is quite huge and estimated at 800,000barrels per day. “This is in addition to the huge regional market that exists for petroleum products. Alongside the refinery, we are building a polypropylene plant, which will answer the demand for polypropylene in the region. It is common knowledge that about a third of our country’s FX earnings go towards the importation of petrol and petroleum products. “More strange is the fact that the cost of logistics for transporting these products to Nigeria could instead be deployed to significantly revamp the refining space and therefore, at BUA, we couldn’t just sit back, we knew we had to take action and I am certain we have made the right call yet again”. Apparently giving what may in this context be referred to as a Report Card on the performance of the cement company, he said with a market capitalisation of N1.9trillion, Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortisation (EBITDA) of N82bn and Profit After Tax (PAT) of N60bn as at 2019 Fiscal year that the company was on course to hit EBITDA of N100billion by the end of 2020 despite the dire conditions brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic this year. “Our outcomes are very significant because BUA Cement is a manufacturing and mining outfit and is currently one of the most profitable manufacturing entities on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “Our successes are exceptional because in mining, you are expected to add a lot more value compared to many other industries due to the use of locally sourced raw materials in your operations. Regardless of the hurdles posed by this global pandemic, we continued to create jobs and sustainable wealth for our workers, investors and by extension, our customers. He added that with the presence of resources needed across the country that the leadership of BUA Cement have been able to stabilise prices irrespective of where anybody lives in Nigeria and as a result, the price of cement in Lagos is similar or the same as the price of cement in Maiduguri, Yenagoa, Sokoto or Onitsha. He explained that in addition to this that only 5% of the company’s revenues are used for imports in foreign exchange, saying that the improvement has freed up necessary funds to pursue further expansion and development across our brand portfolio, particularly in the field of innovative manufacturing. He explained that “The cement industry in Nigeria is currently producing about 28 million metric tonnes of cement per annum, which translates to about 120kg per head in terms of consumption per capita. This is lower than consumption per head in the rest of Africa. “Based on this, it is very clear that we are not even producing enough cement. Where others see low consumption figures, I see opportunity; it means Nigeria and the surrounding region is still home to huge opportunities in housing, infrastructure, and allied industries. While giving overview of the cement market, he noted that demand and consumption currently outstrips supply, and that the country’s population is increasing thus causing logistics to remain a huge challenge in the sector, coupled with reduced production amongst some players. “To this end, he said this is why the price of cement in the market is currently about 20% higher than the price of cement ex-factory. Other challenges in the sector that were cited in his speech cut across aging Plants, but said BUA is one of the few that have new Plants”. He assured that the leadership of the company has taken it upon itself to tangibly bridge the demand gap by 2022, saying that the potentials exists as Nigeria should be producing at least 300kg per head or about 60million metric tonnes per annum, which he said doubled current production capacity. Throwing light to the foregoing, he said: “Imagine with me for a second, if we were still importing cement. The cost of logistics alone would have made the price of cement out of the reach of many – especially those in far-flung states. As I said earlier, and many of us have experienced, the retail price of cement is currently high. “However, at about $120/ton ex-factory this is still lower than the price of cement per ton in many African countries. This equally means the market is big enough for new investments and unless we all come out to face these challenges as leaders, development will be difficult to achieve”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION