Poor drivers’ training has been described as the fulcrum of bad and dangerous driving on our roads, but less has been said, expressed and done about the capacity of those training those drivers. Much has also been said about those who circumvent the training process required through driving schools, but little is said about those churning out the drivers. The quality of training received by a driving school student is incumbent on the quality of the trainer cum instructor, while the quality of the trainer is also derived from the quality of the training, exposure and experience garnered by such instructor. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The recent national training organised for proprietors and instructors of Driving Schools across the country with a theme; ‘driver education and training dynamics: aligning with global best practice’, by the Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, designed to spotlight activities of driving school instructors and enhance their capacity in the value chain of ensuring safety on our roads is a welcomed development and must be commended. I guess the training is in furtherance of the passion of Boboye Oyeyemi, Corp Marshall, FRSC, to sanitise the operations of driving schools, aligning it with global best practice, which could radically aid the Corp in attaining its core mandate of improving safety on the country’s highways. Railway Capable Of Ending Apapa Gridlock– Engr. Okhiria NARTO Set To Harmonise Private Transport Operations Across Nigeria – Odunowo In his remark given at the Osun training center, Boboye Oyeyemi said: “The training is designed with the drivers, drivers instructors, driving school operators and drivers testers in mind; all focused on achieving the desired behavioural change through the acquisition of higher skill levels and reduction in risk taking behaviours, thereby also resulting in lesser crashes and fatalities as well as loss of valuable property. “As we all know, the first and most important purpose of driver’s license is to notify law enforcement personnel that you have gone through the legal process and procedures to obtain your driver’s license and that you are legally authorized to drive a particular type of vehicle efficiently such that would not cause havoc. “ It also serves as an Identity in numerous situations, including transactional and in case of Road Traffic Crash, or crime. For all of these reasons, it is important that the processes and procedures for obtaining the document are firmed up such that all the advantages can be harmonised for national development. ”There is no doubt that the processes and procedures for obtaining the Driver’s Licence differ from country to country but there are always best practice which have uniformity, in content, procedure and, usually outcomes. The need to constantly seek for global best practice, therefore, rests on the Corps, as statutorily charged through its Enabling Act. This, the Corps has been consistent in doing.” Oyeyemi stressed. Oyeyemi also highlighted one of the giant steps taken by the Corps, revealing the revamp of the DSSP portal to version 2.0 which will soon be launched immediately the training is concluded and the introduction of Computer Based Testing (CBT) for intending applicants as part of the processes of obtaining fresh Drivers licence in the country. He stated: “It is in view of the foregoing that this workshop, aside from reiteration of the concept of the Driving Schools Standardization Programme (DSSP) and theory and practice of driving instruction, it will also introduce participants to the new components of the driving school curriculum, particularly those of the motorcycle, tricycle and the articulated vehicles. “ It will also avail participants with the 2.0 version of the DSSP portal, including practical exposure to new DSSP portal for the Computer Based Test (CBT) for trainees; and finally, basic security awareness for the driving schools’ operators and instructors.” “It is equally important to reiterate that good driving school operators and instructors must be knowledgeable, experienced, patient, have good communication skills, cool headed, be someone you can count on and above all, can be recommended by others. All these qualities are to be pursued in the course of the training.” Oyeyemi affirmed. His Excellency, Adegboyega Oyetola, Executive Governor, Osun State, while commending the training, said: “This training is a laudable one with paradigm shift from primordial way of training drivers to a more acceptable practice aimed at regulating the activities of Driving Schools towards ensuring uniform standards in drivers training, inculcating safety consciousness, improving professionalism and proficiency in safe road use. “Since the inception of the DSSP in May 2010, it has recorded significant successes and has also assisted in sanitizing the operations of driving schools in Nigeria through driver training education which has produced safe and efficient drivers who are capable of participating adequately in today’s complex traffic environment in the country. The DSSP is designed to ensure sustenance of standard driving schools for the issuance of Driver’s License geared toward reduction of Road Traffic Crashes in Nigeria. “I enjoin you to pay attention to the deliberations with a view to consolidate on the success recorded in the implementation of the Driving School Standardization Programme (DSSP).” The governor said. According to Jide Owatunmise, National President, Driving Schools Association on Nigeria, (DSAN), “As it is today, over 70 per cent of people obtaining Driver Licence in Nigeria did not go for any form of theory and practical training in Driving Schools. They got their Certificates from Driving Schools in proxy. “The absence of standard and uncompromised theory and practical tests by the Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIOs) at the State levels further contributed the churning out of untrained Drivers. These lapses are major contributors to the increasing rate of road traffic crashes on Nigeria roads. “Virtually all the State Government Agencies are also compromising Quality Driver education in their bid to generate revenue through massive issuance of driver licence. Some of the Officers even rebuke Driving School Operators who dare demand to see and train the Driver Licence Applicants. “Many of the Driving Schools do not even have offices or training facilities. They only go to Driver Licence Centres to scout for Driver Licence Applicants whom they will generate certificates without any form of training. This has been the ugly trend in Nigeria for many years now. “The high level of compromise by; Officers of FRSC, Board of Internal Revenue, VIOs and Driving Schools have dishearteningly increased the rate of road traffic crashes, injuries and deaths on Nigeria. Instead of Nigeria recording a reduction under the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety, we had an increase. This is disgraceful. Talking about the steps taken by his association to address the anomaly, Owatunmise said, “The Driving School Associations in Nigeria, DSAN, reached an agreement with the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) to fully activate the Final Assessment Tests in the various Driving Schools. This is different and has nothing to do with the structured test expected to be conducted by the VIOs before approving the issuance of Driver Licence. “The objective of the Driving School Final Assessment Test contained in the version 2.0 recently launched by FRSC is to ensure that all Driver Licence Applicants attend Accredited Driving Schools for the requisite Theory and Practical Lessons to greatly boost quality driver education for enhanced safety on Nigeria roads. “Virtually all the Riders of Motorcycles and Tricycles in Nigeria have no education on Traffic Signs, Regulations and Defensive Riding Techniques. The version 2.0 is also designed to compel them to attend approved Driving Schools for the basic training to enhance their safety when riding on any road in Nigeria.” He said. Owatunmise however, stated that, “The just concluded training programme by FRSC for Driving School Owners and Instructors will go a long way in further boosting the capacity of Driving Schools to regularly deliver quality driver education for enhanced safety on Nigeria roads. “I use this opportunity to greatly commend Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, Corp Marshall, FRSC, for his unrelenting efforts towards finding a lasting solution to the challenges that hitherto bedeviled the Driving Schools Standardisation Programme, DSSP. “Before 2009, the operation of Driving Schools in Nigeria was grossly unregulated and akin to a touting business, but in 2009, FRSC organized the first comprehensive training for driving instructors and certified Driving Schools, however, the activities of touts and racketeers continued to make mockery of Driving Schools’ certificates and the DSSP. Stressing that, “Touting so much pervaded the driving school industry to the extent that pure water sellers were even touting driving school certificates for as low as N500 per certificate. The touts and racketeers were feeding fat, while most driving school owners were going hungry. “Today, there is a paradigm shift; nobody obtains drivers licence without getting a certificate from driving schools, much of the commendation goes to the indefatigable Corp Marshall and his amiable team for regularly blocking the loopholes and invigorating the DSSP for the well-being of the Driving School industry and by extension road safety administration in Nigeria.” Owatunmise admitted. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION