Ada Osuagwu operates a HR Consultancy business alongside a dry cleaning outfit, De Laundry Centre. Just like a good number of other business operators, she laments the downward trends in business operations in the year 2020. NKASIOBI OLUIKPE spoke with her. Excerpts: Your assessment of 2020 as it affects business operations? 2020 was a difficult year for all business owners. ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! First and first most, the economy of the whole world was literally shut down because of the COVID 19 pandemic. Before then, our own economy here was already in contraction, so when it was shut down for about six months, a lot of businesses died. The ones that didn’t die were having problems surviving. The point is, it was a very challenging year. I’m Passionate About Globalisation Of Nigerian Skincare Products –Akinbajo ‘2020 Has Been A Very Difficult Year For Businesses’ The travels and tourism sector was completely down, education was down even as they opened, it was just only for two months and it’s looking like they will not open early in January. That sector was so badly affected. The financial sector was no better. People who have loan obligations were unable to pay because they were not doing business and those who were about to collect loans were skeptical about it because of uncertainty. 2020 was quite challenging, anybody that still has a business now must be grateful to God, it was a year of people just trying to be alive first before talking about business. How did you cope? For me, it affected me as well because I run two businesses. I am a HR consultant and I have a laundry and dry cleaning outfit. Basically, nothing happened in the dry cleaning section because, of course, most of the people were working from home; churches were shut down for over nine months, so people were not going to churches. Events were not happening. So, though that aspect of my business still exists, but nothing happened there. As for my HR consultancy business, I have a lot of trainings lying down but COVID made it impossible. I also noticed that employers were not going for the high executives any more, they were just employing entry level officers. It also affected my operations in this area, but especially, the trainings. I couldn’t do anything in that wise. Now tell us how you started your dry cleaning business and how would you assess it? We started by pulling funds together; (My elder brother and my husband) to buy over a laundry whose owner did not want to run it anymore. Laundry business in Nigeria is mainly dominated by non-professionals, which is people who do not take care of customers’ garment in a professional way by using the right machines and chemicals. You find out that it is one of the businesses you can start with very minimal capital, but the challenge may rise with who and who you want to attract. Most people value their garments more than any other personal belonging, if you want to attract the right type of customers you must be ready to invest in the business. What and how much does it take to go into dry cleaning? It depends on how you want to launch out and who are your target audience. If you want to start it by getting the right equipment, it will cost some good money, otherwise one can choose to start little and grow it big. Starting little will mean compromising on quality because there are some garments that require real professional touch. So, what do you do when such type of garments are brought? It is either you reject it, or you face the risk of damaging customer garment. How do you source your clientele? I source my customers, from my friends, former colleagues, neighbours etc, But most importantly, I depend a lot on online marketing through my social media handles, which I can do in-between my sleep, when I am relaxing or when I am bored. You know social media has become one of the most effective ways of communicating and reaching a wider audience. Most of our clients are not even within our immediate neighborhood. Some do not even know what our offices look like but they have been our customers over the years. We keep them abreast of what we do online. Are you directly involved or you have hired hands managing it for you? I am directly involved by way of supervision but I have able hands that support me with daily operations. So, I am involved with strategic things, like getting new customers and ensuring we retain the ones we already have. What informed your going into dry cleaning business? After working for 15 years I felt it was time for me to meet a need and make money while finding solution to that need. I played with a lot of ideas before I finally settled with laundry and dry cleaning. However I have also veered into Human Resource Consultancy, because I am a certified human resource professional. In the absence of the required capital, how small can one start a dry cleaning business? Well you can start with your bucket, soap and ironing table at the back of your house and with determination, you can grow it bigger than you initially imagined. But like I said it has its own consequences, you will be limited in some ways. Power, for businesses of these nature is usually a big issue. How do you manage the issue of lack of power (light)? Power is one of my biggest challenges, because in this business there is nothing you can do without power. From the time the garment is received from customers till point of delivery, the use of electricity is involved. We have worked out a means to remain afloat despite the poor power supply. But honestly it is our biggest challenge. You find out that almost every money that comes in goes out again to sustain the business. We depend heavily on the generators for our daily operations. How do you manage and retain difficult clients? I don’t have difficult customers; a customer becomes difficult when expectations are not met. So I have not found myself in that position. All our customers have grown to become our business partners. We support each other. What are the challenges faced by operators of dry cleaning business? Like every other business in Nigeria, the biggest challenging is funding, the laundry business is capital intensive because it requires huge funds to keep it afloat. You know the money comes in trickles from customers which is not adequate to run the business efficiently. Then off-course, alternative power supply also costs money. Another thing is getting the right personnel. This is an industry that majority of the workforce are artisans. Making them comply with whatever quality control process is on ground is one of the challenges we face. There are complaints that washing machines don’t really wash clean. Is that true? Not all garments are meant to be washed with washing machines. When you study the care label of any garment it will tell you which procedure to follow, whether it is hand-wash or machine wash. If a garment is hand wash on its care label and you use washing machine you will not get the desired result. Same applies if it is meant to be machine wash and you use hand, it will also not give you the desired result. How do you think the present situation can be improved upon for businesses and what do you think can be done, especially on the part of government? Everybody is hopeful for 2021 only if there will be a cure for COVID 19. If there is no cure, I don’t see anything happening and hopefully too, if the vaccine will change the course of events. If that happens, I think the economy of the world will pick up again. As per the government, I don’t think I know how to answer that question because, here in this part of the world, everybody is on its own. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION