All great authors are said to be seers. When George Henry Lewes said this, he also was not speaking from surface reality, he had taken a deep look and found understanding in what it means to be an author. If anyone fits the bill of the above description, a person who sees, then it is Taofeek Olatubosun, Nigerian scholar and published author. At a recent Zoom meeting held on December 10, family friends, students, colleagues and renowned authors gathered in his honour. The virtual meeting had in attendance personalities like Professor Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo, renowned Nigerian author, scholar and lecturer; Folu Agoi, poet, author and president, PEN Nigeria; Kenneth Obiorah, lecturer, University of Lagos and many others. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Speaking at the meeting on the author’s prowess as a writer, Professor Adimora-Ezeigbo explained that it was always a delight to talk about Olatunbosun. “He is my student and will always be my student. One thing I like about him is that he is hardworking. He relates well with his people which means he will make good friends.” She continued saying, “I have monitored his progress over time and he has a deep interest in myth and tradition. I have the impression that he grew up close to his community, which is something that is very important for a writer. He has a good grip on his culture and he will go far, Olatunbosun has a bright future in writing.” Vydah Debuts With Insanity, MI Corazon 2020 Needs To Be Over, Says Adekunle Gold With such glowing recommendations from a woman of her literary standing, others lined up to detail the unique gifts that they have equally seen in the author and how he daily inspires them. Agoi, who described Olatunbosun as an energetic, creative young man shared that “there is no time I reach out to him that he doesn’t respond. He is never afraid of hard work. ‘Ominla, the Inexplicable’, his new book is a product of his native community. Despite his religious affiliations, he never turns his back on his culture.” Friends of the author, like Olanrewaju Bello also testified to the author’s hardworking streak. In his words, “Hardship prepares ordinary people for extraordinary blessing. He motivates me when he comes up with innovative ideas. According to the author’s sister, Sarah, growing up, the author was thoroughly invested in reading and writing, especially poems. “He loves his serenity, and I learnt to be creative from him For UNILAG’s Obiorah, who revealed that he has known the author for a decade, he explained Olatunbosun likes to express himself in a deep yet simple way. When asked which of the great Nigerian authors he would compare the author to, he said, “Olatunbosun is writing out of his own world, he is not to be compared to anyone, but he has a bit of all the great authors in him.” Samuel Akeredolu, from Rasmed Publications Limited, publishers of Olatunbosun’s latest book who also attended the meeting stated that this was not their first publication with the author, having published ‘Mr Grammar’ in 2017. “The author understands his craft and has impeccable writing skills worthy of awards. He is also well known for his writings on spiritualism,” he stated. Akeredolu further revealed that the much-anticipated book is ready for publication come 2021. Olatunbosun, a lecturer at the Mountain Top University, has to his credit, several books on drama and poetry, and his latest book ‘Ominla the Inexplicable’ is already being awaited by the literary community. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION