Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has described the outgoing year as the most challenging one in human history urging Nigerians to cooperate with government to end the dreaded pandemic in the country. While appreciating the residents of the state for their cooperation and support to his administration, Oyetola assured that his administration’s development agenda was on course and that he would continue to work tirelessly to set Osun on the pathway of sustainable economic revolution. Oyetola who said these in his New Year Message to the people of Osun, noted that in spite of the challenges encountered in the outgone year, his government was “able to provide equitable and adequate services for our people across sectors and prove that even in the face of gross adversity and crass challenges, we have the capacity to secure our people and deliver services.” ABUJA DOCTOR REVEALS HOW MOST NIGERIA MEN ARE NOW OVERCOMING TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS BRILLIANT DISCOVERY. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He appealed to residents and citizens of Osun to always observe Covid-19 protocols so as to curb the spread of the virus in the State. He also highlighted some of the achievements of the State government in the outgone year and what it intends to do in the New Year to better the lives of the citizenry. Nigerians Must Look Forward To Prosperous 2021 – Makinde Anambra: One Dead, Four Injured In Multiple Motor Accidents The governor said infrastructure development received a boost in 2020, noting that the government constructed and rehabilitated several intra- and inter-city as well as rural roads across the State, to boost socio-economic development and enhance the movement of people and their produce. “The State of Osun piloted the first Community Based Road Maintenance system in the country and we have engaged twenty-eight (28) Road Maintenance groups with about 300 persons to carry out routine maintenance of rehabilitated roads. “Our commitment to the road projects also contributed to our ranking by the Federal Government as the best performing State among the participating States in the World Bank Rural Access and Mobility Project 2(RAMP 2) in the country, ” the Governor added. Oyetola also disclosed that as part of efforts to engender economic recovery and transformation in the State, the government commissioned one project and flagged off two others during the year. “They are the ultra-modern aluminum factory in Ede, the International Trade Centre/Industrial Hub and Inland Port, in Dagbolu, which is arguably the first of its kind in this part of the country, especially in the South-West and the Osun Ethanol Bio-Refinery Factory located in Ayekale respectively. “These business concerns will promote trade and commerce, radically stimulate the economy and create jobs for our youths. The Ayekale project alone will for instance create jobs for an estimated 10, 000 youths and people of the State.” He added: “In furtherance of our bid to provide quality, affordable and equitable healthcare for the people, our Administration has commissioned two out of the nine General Hospitals and over 300 of the 332 Primary Health Centres flagged off in our first year in office and the facilities are rendering qualitative service to the people. The remaining facilities which are at various levels of completion will be commissioned for use in the New Year. “We scaled up the revitalisation of our schools at all levels this year. A total of over 100 schools were renovated and equipped with teaching materials while we trained and re-trained staff to boost the performance of students. “We resumed our robust welfare package for our workers during the year. We commenced payment of Minimum Wage in November this year, thus making our State one of the six States to have done so throughout the country so far. We also lifted the ban on annual salary increments and the embargo placed on promotions and conversions. We have also prioritised payment of pensions, despite our dire economic condition. We shall not renege on this. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION