Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo on Sunday disclosed that it was General Olu Bajowa who saved him from being killed by Lieutenant Colonel Buka Dimka in the February 13, 1976 military coup d’etat. He gave the revelation at Igbotako, Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State at the celebration of the 80th birthday of General Olu Bajowa (Retd). “I want to say something about Olu either he knew it or he didn’t not know. When Dimka coup came, if Olu had not been what and what he is, I would have gone with the coup. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “Let me tell you the story. “Olu is very respectful. He is very conscious of our culture. He had a child, a boy, and wanted to name the child after me. He had to call me early in the morning, that morning that Dimka struck. Avoid Travelling To Stay Safe, WHO Warns Amid Spike In Africa’s COVID-19 Numbers Clergy Urges Nigerians To Intercede For The Country “And because Olu said he was coming, I had to wait a little bit. I waited beyond the time I would have gone out. “Olu then came, he made the request and I granted the request. “So, I was a little bit late in going on the route that I normally took to work. And Reinumuje went ahead of me and they thought it was me and they shot his car. They shot his car, Murtala was shot. “Indirectly, that is how Olu Bajowa saved my life,” he stated. Describing Bajowa as a performing soldier, he revealed that Bajowa performed very well when he (Obasanjo) drafted him to go and lead 11 Battalion during the nation’s civil war. Obasanjo, who doubled as the chairman and compere at the birthday reception held in the compound of General Bajowa, emphasised that any job that Bajowa could not do, no one else could do. Meanwhile, the state governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu called on owners of local radio stations to dwell more in educating and disseminating information in local languages. He made the call while inaugurating a new radio station in commemoration of the 80th birthday of General Olu Bajowa(retd) at Okitipupa. The governor commended General Bajowa for the pivotal role he’s performing towards development of the Southern Senatorial District of the state. In his address, General Bajowa, whonwas flanked by his wife, Princess Yemi Bajowa, the Regent of Ayeka Kingdom, disclosed that the aim of establishing the radio station was “to complement the effort of Government in reviving and prompting Ikale, Ilaje, Ijaw-Apoi and Ijaw-Arogbo culture, tradition, custom and by extension the Yoruba heritage, which are now becoming abandoned or extinct. “We also identify ourselves with the government effort to make information an important tool for social development and dissemination of the benefit of democracy at the grassroots level.” He, therefore, assured the governor that the station(Awawa Radio 94.1fm) “will support the administration in the provision of necessary information on your government programmes and actions. In his sermon, the Lord Bishop of Diocese On The Coast Church of Nigeria(Anglican Communion), the Rt. Rev’d Olaoluwa Oluseyi Pirisola, charged the general to make the rest of life the best of his life. He admonished him to seek the kingdom of God and His righteousness as well as supporting the gospel of Jesus Christ.The minister called on him to serve him more diligently for the rest of his life. The event was attended by many dignitaries from different parts of the nation including Admiral Akin Aduwo(retd), the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Emitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, Osemawe of Ondo, Oba Victor Kiladejo, the Aboji of Ikaleland, George Babatunde Faduyile, and several royal fathers from Southern Senatorial District of Ondo State among others. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION