Lagos – The countdown has already begun with five days to Christmas and 11 days to the end of the year 2020. For some throwing a virtual Christmas party or carol service to reunite with family members across borders won’t be out of place due to the peculiarity of this period- coronavirus pandemic. For insecurity especially in Northern Nigeria, attending Christmas services or celebration might be with caution to avoid falling prey to insurgents’ attacks. On December 25, 2011, series of attacks occurred during Christmas Day church services in northern Nigeria. There were bomb blasts and shootings at churches in Madalla, Jos, Gadaka, and Damaturu. A total of 41 people were reported dead. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Boko Haram, a Muslim sect in Nigeria, later claimed responsibility for the attacks. In the 2019 Christmas celebration, the Islamic State group released a video claiming to show the killing of 11 Christians in Nigeria. The 56-second video which was produced by the IS “news agency” Amaq, was released on December 26 and analysts reportedly said it was clearly timed to coincide with Christmas celebrations. Prof. Solomon Tarfa, a Christian missionary who was arrested from his orphanage on Christmas Day last year was released about a week ago. Wrong Association (2) Group Demands For Christian President In 2023 His release came two days after the US government designated Nigeria a Country of Particular Concern for religious persecution. Human rights advocates had written to the US Commission on International Religious Freedom to classify him a Prisoner of Conscience following his persecution as a Christian missionary serving orphans especially after his wife and lawyer met with a United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) Commissioner during a private visit to Nigeria this year, Emmanuel Ogebe, human activist lawyer said in a mail to Sunday Independent. The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) appealed to Christians to be more prayerful, as the Christmas season approaches. Stressing that this year’s Christmas is of great significance to Nigerians, as thanks is rendered to God for His faithfulness in spite of the challenges, especially with the pandemic, PFN asked churches to continue to comply with the advised protocols, in preparation and celebration of Christmas activities, while ensuring that the significance of the most important season in the Christian calendar is not, in any way, diminished. However, this year will remain undeletable because of the agony it has brought. It is stating the reality saying many lost their loved ones, finance, peace and stability. Amidst the twists and turns of the year lie reasons to also be thankful to the creator. With Christmas comes the message of redemption and restoration.  Christmas is a unique time to celebrate Jesus Christ, the one whom the Christian faith is built on. The uniqueness of Christmas celebration as Reverend Bayo Aremu, Senior Pastor of Yaba Baptist Church puts it, is to have a full understanding of the reason behind Christmas, which is the discovery of who Jesus Christ is and pledging absolute allegiance to Him, while not bothering oneself whether Christmas should be celebrated on December 25 or not. “The first thing is to understand what Christmas is all about because it is when you understand what it is that you can understand how best to celebrate it. Christmas to me is about Jesus Christ; although it is popularly and generally known as the celebration of Jesus Christ – there have been arguments whether it is January, or whether it’s in December, but that is not our business now. For me, probably we should consider the first set of people that celebrated the birth of Jesus. The Bible presents the story of the Magi (three wise men); they were the first to hear about the birth of Jesus Christ and anytime I consider the celebration, I want to refer back to that story. When they heard about the birth of Jesus Christ, what did they do?  The first thing was that they traveled a far distance to seek for Jesus – the first was; we want to see, we want to discover, we want to know whether the story is true or not. “So, for anybody to celebrate Christmas it begins from the point of discovering Jesus Christ – personal discovery; if you have not known Jesus Christ, what are you celebrating? The celebration of Christmas begins from discovering the person of Jesus Christ and that means you have to seek for Jesus. So, if we must celebrate Jesus, we must seek him first. The second thing is that after they find him, they worship him by bowing down. So, Christmas is about worshipping Jesus Christ – it is another opportunity for people to worship. The third thing they did was to present Him gifts; different kinds of gifts, that is why people exchange gifts at Christmas. But, beyond material gifts, the kind of gifts that God will want is the gift of our life. A lot of people are celebrating Jesus today but they have not offered their life to Christ. So, what we should be thinking around Christmas is to think of how to give our totality to him,” Aremu stated. Adeleye Kayode, Deputy Director, and Head of Public Relations, Apostolic Faith Church, West and Central Africa (WECA) who acknowledged that the church usually holds concerts during Christmas and Easter season also underlined the importance of Christmas. “Christmas is purposely meant to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, regarded among Christians as the saviour of the world. It is also a time for Christian faithful all over the world to remember the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ and to give thanks to the Almighty God for giving the world His only begotten son,” he said. Prophet Emmanuel Adeyemi Ajayi, General Overseer of Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Oke-Iselogo, Multiplication Center, Felele, Ibadan, waving off the position by some preachers that Christmas celebration encourages pagan worship, corroborated Aremu that Christmas was to give God worship. “It is important we celebrate Christmas. We don’t have anything to do with the exact day Jesus was born. The most important thing is what He came to do in the world for human kind and to save souls. That is the major reason we have to remember Him. At least, as human beings, we always remember the day of our birthday not to talk of the person that came to save us. We need to respect Him because He came for the salvation of our souls. Whether we remember Him or not, the most important thing is what He has come to do in the world,” Ajayi shared. Release International, a Christian-based platform which seeks to amplify the voices of persecuted Christians, particularly women, noted that Christmas signifies the coming of Jesus as the light of the world though not in the form of a warrior king Messiah but in a form of a helpless baby born to lowly parents, Joseph and Mary. “Isaiah 9 verse 2 says, ‘The people walking in darkness have seen a great light; on those living in the land of deep darkness a light has dawned.’ Many of the women Release International serves know what it is to be rejected or humiliated, abused or downtrodden. Yet, just as God used Mary and Elizabeth to play their part in making known Jesus, the light of the world, so do our sisters in Christ as they are ‘light’ in their communities. Women like the mothers in Eritrea who make food for the Christian prisoners. The women in the Strength to Stand groups in Egypt who learn to discipline their children in a godly way, and not by beating them. Widows in Nigeria who forgive their husband’s killers,” said the Christian team. Ikpe Nkanang, Director of Public Affairs, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints at the launch of  this year’s ‘Light The World’ Christmas initiative, asked Christians to show forth Christ like acts especially in serving their communities and putting smiles on faces at a time of distress occasioned by hardship and COVID-19. December, he made known, is specifically dedicated by the church to evangelise and reach the needy in the society through a 26-day based calendar. “What we do is to ask members of the public irrespective of their faith to join us in celebrating the child Jesus Christ.  Christ came to light the world and there were certain characteristics He exhibited. When Jesus was born, angels proclaimed, ‘Peace on earth, good will to men.’ “This December, the promise remains the same. As we serve others the way Jesus served, we can end 2020 on a hopeful note using every day in the calendar-December 1 to 26 for inspiration as a new opportunity to #LightTheWorld,” Nkanang said. He urged members and others to participate in the tasks outlined in the calendar, part of which includes; fast relief by going without a meal or two and donating the cost to a food charity (day six), health caring through showing appreciation for health care workers (day eight) and calling or visiting parents or parental figures (day 15). Also another leader of the church, President Asuquo Udobong said it would be soothing that individuals find time in this time of pandemic to light up the world. “Please find time to be part of the 26 days event. It is a call to render service to humanity,” he stated. One of the church leaders who disapproves of Christmas celebration, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, General Overseer of The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministry, TLCCRM, distanced the church’s end of the year programme from Christmas celebration. As he stated, “Our end of the year programme is not a celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ, but rather, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. So, the issue is Christmas is a doctrine of those who don’t read the Bible. There is no place in my Bible that I have seen Christmas, so, what I do is that I am taking advantage of the holidays to preach the gospel.  This end of the year programme is a special programme for people to come and appreciate what God has done for them from beginning of the year to the end, and at the same time, we minister to them every outstanding need which they have failed to realise. Through that programme, God can take care of the lapses. That is why we tag it ‘Only God can do this.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION