As the curtains draw on the Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies 2020 Season 2 promo, beneficiaries are still enjoying the euphoria of the impact of the promo on their lives and businesses. The mega promo, which produced over 450 lucky winners across the country, has impacted positively on the businesses of loyal customers and assisted in mitigating the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumers. A block moulder and cement dealer, who was one of the lucky winners of the just concluded Dangote Cement Promo, Mr. Obinna Udebi, said the N1million star prize won during the promo has been used to expand his cement and block-moulding business. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! According to Udebi, his business was only struggling to survive due to the impact of the global COVID-19, but it was rescued by Dangote Cement through the just concluded Mega Promo. He disclosed that, prior to the promo, he was only able to buy 300 bags of cement, “but with N1 million, I have been able to increase the numbers of my cement stock from 300 to 600 bags.” NIN Matching: 9mobile Launches Intelligent Portal For Instant Verification NDIC Begins Verification Of 42 Failed MFBs Depositors He said Dangote Cement has helped improve his revenue, as he is now able to deliver cement and blocks to customers within few days as a result of the available funds. Udebi, who claimed to be a major seller of Dangote Cement products since 2009, commended the company for maintaining high quality products that have stood the test of time since inception. For Mr. Aminu Bala, another cement dealer who also won in the promo, the N1 million star prize, has transformed him from an ordinary retailer of cement to wholesaler and major dealer of Dangote Cement. Bala stated that the N1 million he won during the promo period has transformed his company from a retailer of cement to a wholesaler. “Since I won the prize money, I have stepped up to buy one to two trailer loads of cement, which automatically transform me from retailer to wholesaler of Dangote Cement. He confirmed that Dangote Cement still remains the best cement in the Nigerian market and continues to be consumer’s first choice. Bala commended the company for initiating the promo during the COVID-19, saying the money won has assisted his company in alleviating the impact of the virus on his business. Another excited winner, Mrs. Naomi Chidi used the money for her building project, which she said had suffered set-backs due to lack of fund. “The money came at the right time. With the money, I was able to take the project to lintel level.” She commended Dangote Cement’s initiatives of ensuring customers’ satisfaction through strategic consumer promo. Michel Puchercos, Group Managing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, while speaking on the reasons for staging the promo, said it was part of the company’s strategies to continuously reward consumers who are the backbone in the cement business “It was to reward valued consumers for their unflinching partnership in ensuring that our range of cement products remains today the first choice for construction purposes across the country,” he added. Puchercos stated: “The prizes we offered during the promo were specifically tailored towards changing the living standards of consumers who are the end users of our products. These prizes have great economic value as they can be used to kick off small scale businesses especially in the face of the COVID-19 global pandemic with many families losing their source of livelihood. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION