LAGOS  – The National Operations Controller of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Mr Mike Osatuyi has picked holes in the implementation of the deregulation of the nation’s downstream sector, saying the government was insincere in driving the exercise logically. He spoke in Lagos at the weekend, where he also bemoaned government’s failure to allow market force determine the petroleum pump price in the country. According to him, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has been the sole importer of petrol and few markets operating crude for refined white product under the name Direct Supply Direct Purchase (DSDP)which negates the principle of market deregulation of the sector. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He said: “There is need for government to allow other players into the market to import petrol by making forex available at CBN official rate as promised severally by the Minister of State for Petroleum, His Excellency, Mr Timipreye Silva. “The Federal Government should make forex available to oil marketers for import so as to drive down petrol price now that crude price is at $52 for brent and $49.5 for WTI per barrel,” he said. MFI Set To Address Low Fortification Compliance Rates For Staple Foods Heritage Bank Powers Palm Oil Entrepreneur With N10m In Next Titan Season-7 The Federal Government has announced plans to make foreign exchange available to petroleum product marketers but we are waiting to be called upon to deliberate on the modalities involved. “Government should make foreign exchange available to petroleum product marketers, like IPMAN, MOMAN and DAPPMAN, in order to make the importation of petrol into the country competitive, reduce the rising cost of the product, and stop the overdependence on the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for its importation and pricing. Osatuyi, said availability of forex to oil marketers would stop the current monopoly in the importation of petrol by NNPC, who has been the major importer of petrol over the years with other players in the downstream oil business buying the product from them. He added: “Government announced full deregulation of PMS (petrol) in March 2020, but we witnessed price band control up to August 2020. From September, the price band control was withdrawn with the hope that full deregulation will surface but what we have been experiencing now is monopolistic deregulations. “NNPC is the only player allowed to access forex for importation of petrol in addition to the crude for petrol handed down to few players in the industry. Government and NNPC are the only parties that can explain the type of deregulation we are practicing in Nigeria. “Government should allow all players to participate in the deregulation processes so that we can bring private sector efficiency to the system which will bring down the price,” Osatuyi added. He commended President Buhari administration for the recent launch of auto gas programme in the country. He said:” Apart from reducing or total stoppage of gas importation into the country, the seriousness of the Federal Government on gas jobs through the production and supply chain mechanism. Gas will be cheaper for Nigerians. expansion programme will create “ It will serve as alternative means of powering of our vehicles through usage of compressed natural gas (CNG).Liquefied Petrol Gas (LPG) will also serve as power for our generator which will make power cost be cheaper if crude oil go up to $80 per barrel”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION