The recent sack of Interim Management Committee (IMC) for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) under the leadership of embattled acting Managing Director; Professor Kemebradikumo Daniel Pondei appears to be a right step towards imbuing ongoing forensic audit of the agency with a modicum of credibility. While there is yet no official hint suggesting that sack of Ponde’s management team was necessitated by the need to create enabling environment for a thorough and credible forensic audit, there is however a strong feeling that the removal of the indicted management team was long overdue and in the interest of integrity of the forensic audit. The move therefore may have unwittingly restored the faith of genuine stakeholders in the ongoing exercise which is expected to deliver comprehensive and unbiased report that will ultimately reposition the agency along the path of its developmental objective at inception. For the forensic audit to pass the test of credibility; considering the widely held notion of corruption in the agency, individuals indicted on account of corruption ought not to have been allowed to remain in office. If the forensic audit was intended to clean the Augean Stable in NDDC as widely expected, it then amounted to a huge blunder to have allowed a management team enmeshed in accusations of sleaze to preside a day longer in office; particularly considering the embarrassing drama that attended the public inquiry at the national assembly. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It is recalled that investigation into alleged financial impropriety and mismanagement under the two successive IMCs by the Federal House of Representatives elicited public outrage. The eventual abandonment of the inquiry by the House of Representatives under curious circumstances is largely seen as unbecoming. It shouldn’t have mattered that the forensic audit was meant to cover the period between 2001 and August, 2019, it was a breach of public trust on the part of the federal government to have accorded an indicted management team the latitude of exercising administrative powers while forensic audit was ongoing. NIN: FG’s Unending Discordant Tunes Over Registration Has Leah Sharibu Been Forgotten? An estimated N2.5 billion is believed to have been earmarked for the forensic audit expected to shed light on circumstances surrounding two decades of rot in NDDC amongst which is the abandonment of some 12,000 projects that ought to have significantly bridged the development gaps in the Niger Delta Region. In August, 2020, the Federal Executive Council approved N722 million for eight field Forensic Auditors in addition to an initial N318 million earlier approved for the lead Forensic Auditor to kick-start the exercise. It is therefore unfortunate that the initial ovation that greeted President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that a forensic audit be carried out on project implementation in the NDDC has waned considerably following corruption allegations and counter accusations between the recently sacked management and the previous IMC headed by Ms. Joi Nuniel. Notwithstanding the moral dilemma of corruption accusations against recently sacked NDDC’s management team, both the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs; Godswill Akpabio and the immediate past acting Managing Director, Professor Pondei were vociferous in assuring Nigerians that the forensic audit was not only on course but would be free from interference. It was unreasonable to expect the outcome of the forensic audit to be seen as credible with an indicted management in place and considering the dust that was yet to settle over the botched public inquiry at the national assembly. It is indeed disturbing that the forensic audit largely perceived as a bold move towards unearthing the rots in the agency was overshadowed by series of mind-bogglingly allegations involving successive IMCs that were charged with the responsibility of administering the affairs of commission. Notwithstanding, concerns amongst stakeholders with regards to prolonged absence of statutory management team for the NDDC are legitimate and indisputably reasonable. We appreciate that the NDDC ought to be governed in accordance with established statute to guarantee fairness and due process in the administration of the agency. Expectedly therefore, a substantive governing board for the NDDC should be the way to go as soon as the forensic exercise is completed. In the prevailing scenario however, the appointment of Sole Administrator pending the conclusion of the forensic audit is understandable considering the unsuitability of an indicted management team to continue in office. More so, the appointment of a substantive board at the moment would appear ill-timed; considering that the outcome of the forensic audit is expected to chart a new course for the agency. It is therefore anticipated that the team for forensic auditors will discharge their duties thoroughly as expected. Considering the wide-range allegations of corruption against the recently sacked Pondei-led IMC, it was unlikely the forensic audit would not have been tainted by negative perception. Therefore the recent change in the leadership of the NDDC couldn’t have been otherwise in ensuring the credibility of the much-awaited audit report. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION