The aviation industry globally was down for most parts of 2020, yet there is no indication that the sector will return to the pre-COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Air transport represents a small share of 0.06 per cent of the Nigerian Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but the Federal Government through Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, vowed to increase the share to at least 1 per cent in 2020 through pragmatic policies and actions that will grow its revenue generations. No doubt, aviation industry globally is a key enabler of many other economic activities and Nigeria cannot continue to play the second fiddle with its abundant resources. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! So, like the previous years, players in the sector in the country with the plan of the government to increase its contributions to the GDP, moved into the year 2020 with the enthusiasm of some of the promises being fulfilled within the year. Sirika promised to implement at least three of the master plans formulated by the Ministry of Aviation in 2015 by 2020. Some of the master plans included the establishment of a new national carrier, the concession of four airports in the first phase of the exercise, development of agro-allied/cargo terminals, the establishment of Maintenance, Repairs and Overhaul (MRO) centre, creation of an Aviation Leasing Company (ALC) and the establishment of Aviation University for the country. Immigration Upgrades Festac Passport Office To Process Enhanced Passport COVID-19 Pandemic Reason For Delay In Salary Payments – MD FAAN Expectations were high from all spheres, many of the airline operators planned to expand their operations on the international routes, while consolidating in the domestic scene to be at par with the plans of the government, various government agencies keyed into the government’s policies and hoped to grow their revenue generations and provide a more enabling environment for airlines, air travellers and other users of their facilities. But, the advent of COVID-19 pandemic, its spread to Nigeria, subsequent closure of the country’s airspace in March and long months of the lockdown of the economy within the same period, put paid to all aspirations, policies and plans of government and private organisations. The dramatic drop in demand for passenger air transport and freight due to the COVID-19 pandemic and containment measures threatened the viability of many firms in both the air transport sector and the rest of the aviation industry, with many jobs, lost within a spate of six months. By the end of March, aviation contribution to GDP had nosedived from 0.06 per cent to zero percentage. Aircraft were grounded all over the country’s tarmacs, technical aviation personnel like pilots and engineers, roamed the streets without any hope of returning to the air, ground handlers grounded their Ground Support Equipment (GSE) due to lack of use, while auxiliary organisations like others were compelled to lay off staff. Cumulatively, the entire aviation industry lost almost N400 billion to the pandemic in Nigeria between March and July when the country’s airspace was re-opened for domestic flight operations. To date, statistics indicate that activities in the sector still hover between 65 and 75 per cent. But, the problem is still far from slowing down globally. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) in its economic performance report of the airline industry for November predicted that airlines are set to finish 2020 with $118 billion of losses. Earlier, in July 2020, IATA indicated that the industry was forecast to lose $84.3 billion in 2020. However, prior to the advent of COVID-19 pandemic in the country, February to be precise, most international flights bound for the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos diverted to Ghana, Benin Republic and other neighbouring West African countries, following poor weather conditions and complications from new equipment installation by the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). In their review of the aviation industry in Nigeria in 2020, analysts said that the COVID-19 pandemic had exposed organisations in the sector, saying that many of them failed to plan for the rainy days. Those spoken to say within a spate of one month of the pandemic and the eventual lockdown, the airlines, government agencies, ground handling companies and others found it difficult to meet up with their financial obligations. Speaking on the issue, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, Director, Research, Zenith Travels, lamented the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the sector in the year 2020. He recalled that Nigeria started the New Year with the malfunction of Instrument Landing System (ILS) of NAMA at the Lagos airport, while Covid-19 massively brought down the industry to its toes. Ohunayo decried that by the end of December 2020, the industry was yet to recover from the effect of the pandemic, yet the second wave of the plague crept in, thereby disrupting activities in the sector again. According to him, the pandemic affected travel and tourism, while almost all businesses and meetings are now being down online with different applications virtually, adding that the free fall of naira against dollars further created more crises for the nation’s carriers and increased costs for operators. He lamented that the N27 billion palliatives for airlines, agencies and other organisations, which many stakeholders and professionals in the sector said was inadequate was yet to be granted to respective organisations in December 2020 months after the announcement by the Federal Government, which he said further compounded the challenges facing the sector. He said: “The year 2020 wasn’t good for the industry worldwide. We started in Nigeria with the ILS malfunction, which cost international airlines and over-flyers to be diverted to other neighbouring countries. By the same early period in the year, activities were knocked down by the COVID-19 pandemic and that also minimised revenues for the agencies, service providers, airlines and the industry in general. With that, the industry witnessed a complete nosedive. “As we began to come out of the COVID-19 with the introduction of vaccination, the second wave hit the industry once again and dampened the spirit of travellers because international travellers and routes are threatened.” Also, Mr. Alex Nwuba, aviation analyst in his review of 2020, described the year as a tough one for airlines, agencies and air travellers. He explained that the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic made rubbish of whatever projection organisations made for the industry and wondered how Nigerian business organisations, especially the airlines were able to survive the year without closing shop. He explained that though, the Federal Government had promised to support the industry especially the airline sub-sector, but the government was yet to demonstrate the political will to deliver on its support. “Been a tough year with reduced travel due to Covid-19 and the resultant economic decline, this includes the reduced capacity of airlines due to financial challenges in the economy. Also, the significant decline of the naira against major currencies had a huge effect on the sector. It’s a wonder airlines have not gone under. The government had promised to assist the industry, but has yet to demonstrate any support.” To Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu, COVID-19 pandemic was a setback to the development of aviation not just in Nigeria, but across the globe. He lamented that the pandemic led to a step down on the progress that had been made over the years, but noted that it also exposed the weaknesses in the airlines’ commercial practices and the negligence in the oversight in those practices and the enforcement of the economic regulations by the responsible authority. Ojikutu further stated that the failure of respective agencies to periodically maintain their facilities also reared its ugly head in the outgoing year. He added: “The operators hide under these weaknesses and the responsible authority negligence on oversight of their commercial practices to be asking for government financial palliatives within two months into the lockdown as if the COVID-19 pandemic is the bane of losses in figures of their one year earnings. “There was also the negligence in the periodic maintenance of necessary critical aeronautical landing equipment that led to the diversions of international flights to neighbouring countries that caused huge losses of revenue earnings. There were setbacks in the reconstruction of the infrastructure at some airports especially Enugu, Lagos, Abuja, Owerri, Benin and others where the air and passenger traffic are higher than the rest. “The evacuation of foreign nationals exposed the weaknesses or strengths in the bilateral air services agreements between countries and the differences in what some countries call national or flag carriers and private airlines carriers. While most foreign carriers moved unrestricted in and out of our country, it was not easy for our private carriers to do the same into other countries. We lost out in spite of the capacities in some of our domestic carriers.” Also, by August 29, 2020, barely a month after the reopening of the nation’s airspace for domestic operations, Quorum Aviation helicopter, Bell 206 with the registration number: 5N-BQW crashed into a residential building at Opebi area of Lagos, killing all the occupants who were staff of the airline company. Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) in its preliminary report on the crash said that the helicopter had no fuel in its tank as at the time it crashed, even though, it had no capacity to jettison fuel. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION