Our leaders should stop kidding themselves via their empty boasts and timid excuses for not being able to win the war against the insurgents. At a point, it was alleged that the former NSA, Sambo Dasuki diverted the funds appropriated for the procurement of arms and ammunition for then ruling political party to campaign for election, hence the military was ill equipped. Five(5)years after appropriating billions of naira annually for weapons , the military is still complaining about lack of required weaponry. What’s going on? EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It may be recalled that during previous administrations, a window for dialogue with the insurgents was thrown open, and ex president Olusegun Obasanjo had proposed negotiating with Boko Haram. The sect had also reportedly proposed at that time that general Buhari, (who at that time had not yet won the presidency) should represent them-implying that Boko Haram had confidence in his ability and capacity to protect their interest. Of course, the negotiation never materialised, in part because, then general Buhari was reported to have declined the request. What happened to the confidence that Boko Haram had reposed in him when he was tapped by them to negotiate with government on their behalf ? Why are the malcontents in the society manifesting as insurgents determined to slight Mr president by intensifying their efforts with massive onslaught on civilian population, including, attacks on people from how homestead, governors and traditional rulers whose convoys have been ambushed, and even the military, whose camps or formations have been invaded? Even mr president himself, in the course of welcoming the abducted Kankara boys after securing their freedom last week , acknowledged that the bandits must have carried out the kidnapping to slight him because he had barely arrived his homestead for a visit after 18 months absence. Religious Insurgency And Failing Leadership Of Nigeria: A Time For Dialogue (2) Sanwo-Olu: Visible Leadership We may never know the reason the kidnappers are determined to rattle mr president. But what we know is that misery, fear, and death have enveloped our country and it’s time to dialogue with the enemy whose devastating war against our country has been fierce and unrelenting with lives, livelihood and survivability of the country gravely threatened. I’m not unaware that some readers may misconstrue my pacifist advocacy as being apologetic to the cause of the insurgents and also being indulgent with the fiery religious sect that has sent thousands of innocent Nigerians to the great beyond. Nothing can be further from the truth. My suing for the option of peace via negotiation is derived from the fact that since the application of force hasn’t yielded the desired dividends, there is an urgent need to stop further blood letting which is fast becoming the new normal in our country, and a situation that has pushed-up the position of Nigeria to no 3 in the infamous list of most terrorised countries in the world. It is incredibly frightening that Nigeria ranks only below Afghanistan and Iraq in the global terror index as evidenced by the fact that a day hardly goes by without folks being killed or kidnapped in large number in our country. And that’s perhaps why Nigeria is the number three most terrorised country in the world. Having tried and failed in the past decade or so in the attempts to match force-for-force and violence-with-violence as counter measures against the insurgents, the option of negotiation currently lends itself as a possible solution. As we go into the year 2021, we must do everything possible to prevent our country from sinking further into the moras of hopelessness by doing everything necessary and possible to pivot from the current state of anomie and anarchy to peace and tranquility, so that the urgently needed development and progress that would facilitate the prosperity of the masses may set in. Although, it was contemplated in the past, but jettisoned, as the insurgents have now mutated from just Boko Haram, ten years ago to include ISWAP, and Bandits masquerading as herdsmen, which is evidence that the nefarious industry of mass murder of innocent civilians has been growing, instead of shrinking, it is time to do a reality check and call a spade-a-spade by changing strategy and adopting a different approach to ending the pervasive menace of internal terrorism that’s bedeviling our country with the ferocity of a pandemic. Even the coronavirus that has shaken the whole world to its very root has not killed and displaced more people in Nigeria than religious insurgency, banditry and other forms of violence by anti social elements. Amidst the challenges of major Western countries such as the USA etc declining the request from Nigeria to purchase weapons from them due to their suspicions that such armaments would be used against civilians which would particularly violate USA’s rules against human rights abuse; curiously such rules are being waived for countries like the United Arab Emirates, UAE that the USA is selling weapons to; and a country that’s likely to be warding off terrorists with the weapons. So, I can understand the frustrations of the relevant military authorities and indeed the presidency when it is also alleged that some Western countries are surreptitiously aiding and abetting those waging the war against society. But such is the unfair nature of international politics which does not offer a level playing field for all, and therefore an affirmation of the belief that all fingers are not equal in the comity of nations. Now, l have listened to and read the views of some of our leaders in security who are of the opinion that Boko Haram no longer hold territories in our country and no longer pose as threats to mosques, churches, malls and other locations for mass gatherings that they used to blow up as suicide bombers or targets for planting and detonating bombs. That may be true . But rather than being a sign of defeat, the insurgents may have changed their warfare strategy and tactics. In other words as the war has become more asymmetric, (more like guerrilla warfare since the military is note equipped with conventional weapons) the insurgents have become more stealthy and beguiling,much the same way that the Americans suffered defeat in Vietnam after they were out maneuvered in the unconventional warfare, guerrilla warfare strategy adopted by Vietnamese army which confounded American soldiers . It may be recalled that the US army joined in the civil war in Vietnam which was a proxy war between the USA and Russia in 1955 and exited in 1983 without claiming victory as Vietnam ended up being a communist country by the time the war was over . It is on record that many wars did not end by exchange of gunfire but on round tables after negotiations. Since the war against insurgents in our country is an unconventional war, which is very difficult to win, as the Americans discovered to their chagrin in Vietnam over 50 years ago, the insurgents in Nigeria are less visible, but more deadly today than they were about half a decade ago. So unless and until the number of deaths and internally displaced people, IDPs become less than it was five years ago, any claim of defeat or degrading of the insurgents by Nigerian leaders would be egregious and a mere hoax. So my own question is why don’t we channel similar energy invested in waging war against the insurgents in the past decade into negotiations with them as being proposed by some governors of the northern states where the threats to life and deaths of citizens are more rife? According to records, between 1967 and 1972, Moral Re-Armament, MRA, which is a group formed in the 1920s in Britain by an American Lutheran named Francis Buchan to pursue peace, prevented a brewing war between the people of Assam in the hills of India agitating for secession and Indian government. The USA is currently negotiating with the Taliban terrorists with a view to reconciling them with the Afghan government. And back home in Nigeria, president Umaru Yar’Adua, of blessed memory, who ruled between 2007- 2010, applied a negotiation strategy in resolving the militancy in Niger Delta. The approach which was a deviation from the style adopted by his predecessors, from SANNI Abacha who executed Ogoni environment rights leaders including , the poet Ken Saro-wiwa, to Olusegun Obasanjo who razed down Odi town in Bayelsa state for their alleged offense killing officers on law enforcement duties in that town; worked when he introduced the AMNESTY program that has reformed erstwhile militants in the Niger Delta and brought relative peace to the region. So sometimes, jaw -jaw works better than war-war. And professor lbrahim Gambari , a seasoned diplomat and current Chief of Staff, CoS to president Buhari , can affirm that,simply because he has functioned as United Nations, UN peace envoy to some of the most notable conflict and crisis zones in the world. Social scientists, Kenneth Thomas and Ralph Kilmann developed five conflict resolution strategies that people use to handle conflict. These include: AVOIDING, DEFEATING, COMPROMISING, ACCOMMODATING, and COLLABORATING. From my assessment of the war against insurgents in Nigeria , from the five strategies, the only one that has been applied, is DEFEATING. Since our leaders were unable to AVOID the war, hence it is ongoing, and the leadership has equally been trying to DEFEAT the insurgents for about a decade without success, and our country can’t COLLABORATE with insurgents that are wagging war against her , perhaps it is time for our leaders to try the COMPROMISING or ACCOMMODATING option of the array of strategies enunciated by the experts, Kenneth Thomas and Ralph Kilmann? Myetti Allah , the umbrella body for cattle breeders and herdsmen in Nigeria who by virtue of their trade are the closest leaders to the grassroots, are probably the reason the stealing of Kankara boys did not take the same pattern with the abduction of Chibok and Dapchi girls went 6 and 2 years ago respectively, as reflected by the fact that some of the girls have remained in captivity. So they seem to me like the best bet and lynchpin for engaging the religious insurgents in negotiations for them to sheath their swords . Based on the accounts of the rescue by katsina and Yobe state governors, Myetti Allah has proven to be useful in the release of the Kankara boys. So it is my humble submission that the authorities should consider formalizing their strategic role by leveraging their deep contacts and knowledge of the geographical landscape of Nigeria, particularly the northern region by officially conferring them with the responsibility of negotiating the end to this debilitating war that has been wreaking havoc on our people and country. Hopefully, unlike the demand by a majority of Nigerians for the sack of the military service chiefs, and the loud cry by the masses for the restructuring of the country which has so far not been prioritised by Aso Rock Villa , a negotiated settlement with religious insurgents might appeal to mr president. Concluded. Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts university, Massachusetts, USA and a former commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION