ABUJA  – Latest data from the Advisory Power Team, (APT) indicates that the country lost 1.548 megawatts per hour of the 4.482 megawatts average energy generated from November 26 to December 25, while the peak for the 30 days stood at 5.504mw, declining by 16 per cent compared to the previous month. The latest report from the APT shows that Nigerian power sector has continued to suffer severe loss of revenue due to gas as well as transmission and distribution constraints in the electricity value chain, with the losses hitting N22.294 billion on Christmas day, a 30-day review has showed. The largely negative figures for the last 30 days from the Advisory Power Team, which is resident in the office of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, also showed that with declining generation and distribution, many Nigerian homes did not enjoy stable power supply during the ongoing festivities. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Insufficient gas supply, weak distribution and transmission infrastructure accounted for the limited performance of the sector, the report from the advisory power team stated. Like in previous months, some of the power generating plants nationwide, such as the Alaoji NIPP, Ihovbor NIPP, ASCO and AES, did not produce any power. But Egbin, the largest power generation plant in the country, performed the most, followed by Azura- Edo, Kainji, Jebba and Odukpani in that order. The FirstBank 59th Lagos Amateur Golf Open Championship Tees Off Berger Paints Appoints Iheanacho As Non-Executive Director The data also indicated that Afam, Geregu, Omotosho, Trans-Amadi, Sapele NIPP as well Omoku suffered limited performance due to limitation of gas supply. However, from December 19-25, the country lost N5.029 billion, with average power generated for the week standing at 4,421 megawatts per hour, falling by about 90.05 megawatts, compared to the previous week. The huge gap in supply and demand of electricity in the country, however, contrasted with comments by the Mr Sale Mamman, Minister of Power, who told journalists a few days ago that since he assumed duties, power supply had improved tremendously, stated that the Buhari administration had generated the highest power in the history of Nigeria to the tune of over 115,065.78 MW, adding that the country had also attained over 5,520.40 MW peak in the last few months. The minister said in the power sector, 2020 was the year the nation’s power system had experienced the least system collapses which he said, would soon undergo stability with the plan put in place by the federal government. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has attempted to explain why the “eligible customer” policy of the federal government, which gives high consuming entities to buy power directly from Generation Companies (Gencos), rather than through the Distribution Companies (Discos), appears to be failing. In May 2017, the federal government had declared four categories of eligible customers in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI), as permitted to buy power directly from the generation companies in line with the provisions of Section 27 of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005.  SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION