— Warns COVID -19 Still A Public Health Threats The All Progressives Congress APC has charged all arms of the nation’s security apparatus to redouble their effort in tackling rising insecurity from both terrorists groups and criminal elements as the the country join the rest of the world to mark Christmas and yuletide festivities. Senator John James AkpanUdoedehe, Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee in a message to Nigerians on the occasion said the administration has not hidden it’s intent and desire to restore peace assuring that the nation’s security agencies are preparing mobilize all legitimate assets to ensure security nationwide. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The party also alerted of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic he said is fast spreading across the country and globally, warning that wilful disregard of COVID 19 protocols cold spell doom for families. AkpanUdoedehe gave assurance that Nigeria would soon exit present recession, reminding them the current decline of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product GDP came as direct consequence of the pandemic after 12 consecutive quarters of positive growth. Christmas: Nasarawa Speaker Calls For Prayers Over Insecurity Those Who Hate Buhari For No Reason Will Become Gentle By Force – Femi Adesina The text of the message reads : “The All Progressives Congress (APC) joins Christians and indeed all Nigerians in marking the joyful occasion of Christmas which celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ. “As we celebrate with family, friends and loved ones, the APC urges all to imbue the true essence of Christmas — giving, forgiving, love of God and love of our fellow men. We should give a helping hand to those in need and give succour to the vulnerable ones among us. “As we celebrate, some issues in the polity stands out. “Nigeria has recorded nearly 90, 000 COVID-19 infections and about 1,236 related deaths. This shows that the coronavirus remains a real and serious public health threat. In our festivities, we must all stay safe by adhering to official public health directives by avoiding non-essential trips, large gatherings, using facemasks and washing hands regularly to halt the virus spread. “As every country affected by the economic slowdown caused largely by the severity of the global COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria is poised to exit the current recession within a short time, as several measures lined up by the Federal Government shows. It is worthy of note that the decline in the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) came after 12 consecutive quarters of positive growth. “Issues of security is also on the frontburner. The APC assures Nigerians that government and our security services will always mobilise all legitimate assets to ensure the safety and security of all Nigerians. “From the Chibok, Dapchi to Kankara students abductions and other recorded security incidents in the country, the President Muhammadu Buhari government has never lacked the capacity and clear intent to check and contain such incidence when they arise. “While the capacity and valiant efforts of our armed forces and other security services is not in doubt and greatly appreciated, they must do much more to further degrade the ability of terrorists and other criminal elements to perpetuate their evil attacks on soft targets across the country”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION