The youths cadre of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) has expressed concern over the festering leadership crises rocking the party ,particularly in Ekiti The group acting under the aegis of the Conference of PDP Youths urged the feuding leaders to sheathe their swords in the spirit of Christmas  celebration which ,they noted symbolises love and forgiveness. In  a  press statement jointly signed by its  Chairman and the Secretary, Hon. Tosin Ajibare and Hon. Famuyibo Oluwasegun respectively ,the group also urged party supporters using the various social media platforms to fuell the misunderstandings to desist forthwith. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It stated that the multifarious in- fighting in the PDP was dangerous to  the party’s desire to upstage  the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) in the 2022 Governorship election. ” In  fight and bickering has gone on for too long, 2022 is almost upon us, we cannot and must not continue like this. We must unite in order to take over governance from the APC Government. it is evident that the people of Ekiti are clamouring for the return of our party PDP, but if we continue on this trajectory, then we definitely are preparing for a loss, which invariably will be a case of an own goal born out of disunity. China Says Reports Of Demands On Nuclear Power Complicating EU Talks Are Fake Owa Ale-in-Council Meets, Seeks Peaceful Coexistence ” This must not & will not be allowed to happen, Our victory in the coming 2022 Guber polls starts from within the house & it starts now. ” Christmas is all about salvation, sacrifice and redemption, it is about giving “For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son…”. In God’s infinite mercy to save mankind, he gave his only begotten son, Jesus, showing us that nothing is too big to give for redemption. The gift of God to man marks the redeemed life we all have today. “As we are celebrating Christmas, we implore our leaders to gift our party the opportunity of victory in the coming polls by cessation of all in-house hostilities. The biggest gift our leaders can give PDP members this season is a united house as a house divided against itself cannot stand. As our leaders share items to party faithfuls, they must also share love, peace & unity. “We also implore followers of our leaders, most especially on social media to tone down their hostilities and remember that we all irrespective of affiliated factions belong to one big family. A family that must not & will not be allowed to break. We all must embrace peace and unity in order to progress & henceforth desist from acts akin to pulling down our own house.” the statement  said In the same vein, on behalf of the entire members of the PDP Youth constituency, we wish all PDP Members and  Leaders across the State and  Nation at large, a Merry Christmas and a prosperous Happy New Year new year in advance, most especially our distinguished, Leading and  ever Vibrant Leaders, His Excellency Dr Peter Ayodele Fayose and The most Distinguished Senator, Biodun Olujimi. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION