If your eye is pure, there will be sunshine in your soul. But if your eye is clouded with evil thoughts and desires, you are in deep spiritual darkness. And oh, how deep that darkness can be! You cannot serve two masters: God and money. For you will hate one and love the other, or else the other way around (Matthew 6:22-24). The relationship between the Government and the people is spelt out in the section of the Nigerian Constitution that provides that sovereignty belongs to the people of Nigeria from whom the government, through the constitution, derives all of its powers and authority. By that section, the people are the owners of the supreme power of the state and the government, and its officials are responsible and accountable to the people. The Government and all authorities and persons exercising legislative, executive or judicial powers are meant to conduct their public functions or businesses for the security and welfare of the people. As has been illustrated, the role of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice is beyond that of a lawyer, advisor and Minister. It includes administrative and investigative duties. It is the job of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice to advise the Government and its officials to act and conduct their businesses within the limits of the powers allocated to them by the Constitution. It is, therefore, natural to blame the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice for acts of lawlessness or abuse of power by Government and/or public authorities and persons. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The Attorney-General and Minister of Justice also serves as a border guard or immigration officer to the boundaries and spheres of influence allocated to the three arms of Government under the principles of separation of powers. The office is also supposed to provide buffer zones not only between the people and public authorities/institutions but also between the people and the individual. In that respect, the Attorney General and Minister of Justice should not only a champion of the rule of law but also a maintainer and protector of the Fundamental Rights of the individual. As the chief law officer of the nation, the Attorney General enables the President to fulfil his obligation to be faithful and bear true allegiance to the Federal Republic of Nigeria and to execute and maintain the constitution, all laws made by the National Assembly and in all matters with respect to which the National Assembly has the power to make laws. The President depends on the advice and opinions of the Attorney-General in the exercise of the executive powers vested in him in accordance with the Constitution and laws made by the National Assembly. It is the further unenviable job of the Attorney-General to ensure that the President exercises his powers in the spirit of that necessary balance prescribed by the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy. It is, therefore, incumbent on the Attorney General to not only be knowledgeable in the law but must, as of necessity, be attuned with the policy direction of the Government. In sum, the Attorney-General is not only the chief law officer of the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for law enforcement purposes; he is a member of the Cabinet and must be available to advise the President as a counsellor on matters involving policy as well as law. Whereas the laws are written and clear about their purposes, policy agendas on which a President is elected by the electorate are not. They are definable only within the overall purpose of attending to the security and welfare of the people. Abuse Of Pulpit For Political Purpose Coronavirus: My Man Of The Year 2020 Although there is no constitutional or statutory provision spelling it out in black and white, it is the job of the Attorney-General to vet bills that require the assent of the President, to ensure that such bills conform to – or are not in conflict with – the Constitution. This is an obvious area of friction between the Office of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice and the National Assembly. The legislative powers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria are vested in the National Assembly and Section 58 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, provides a very rigorous mode of exercising that power. It is, therefore, not a palatable duty to have the power to advise the President not to assent to a bill that has gone through such rigours. There may be moments when, because of their numerical strength and representative capacity, members of the National Assembly are tempted to be adventurous and go into overdrive with the powers to make laws. It is for the Attorney-General to set such adventurous bills or motions against the letter and spirit of the constitution and extant statutory policies and advise the president accordingly. However, the Attorney-General should at material time be reminded of the fact that he is a political officer charged with legal and not political duties. His judgments in the form of pieces of advice and opinions must not be swayed by political considerations, but by the law and nothing but the law. The Attorney-General must bear in mind that his office is accountable to the National Assembly and that the National Assembly can clip its wings through its funding and oversight powers. There are moments when conflicts arise between the presidency and another organ of government and the question will then be: to which of the two arms should the Attorney-General place his loyalty? The Office of the Attorney-General is as political as any of the cabinet offices created by the President. The President can, for instance, sack him at will. There is, therefore, no need to emphasize the point that the Attorney-General must, as a necessity, maintain the confidence of the President. It has been argued that the Attorney-General’s duty of loyalty should be to the President, as the Attorney-General is the President’s lawyer, the conduit through which the President faithfully executes the law, a close political and legal advisor to the President and a Cabinet member. However, such loyalty should not undermine the constitution and laws made by the National Assembly. It is, therefore, better to say that in his capacity as the chief law officer, his ultimate duty demands fidelity to the Constitution and public interest. It is in this spirit that the point is made that the Attorney-General assumes a public trust for the government, overall and in each of its parts, and is responsible to the people in our democracy with its representative form of government. Each part of the government has the obligation of carrying out, in the public interest, its assigned responsibility in a manner consistent with the Constitution and the applicable laws. The call for the depoliticisation of the Office of the Attorney-General is nothing more than a claim that by its nature, the office is incapable of rendering unbiased, objective and reasoned legal advice. Funny enough, such claims are also most times not founded on unbiased, objective and reasoned considerations. Many a time they are made upon the failure to influence the Attorney-General to abandon legal advocacy for political and moral advocacy. Assessing Abubakar Malami, SAN, as Attorney-General and Minister of Justice It is in the area of policy formulation and drive that the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice serves the people directly. In that regard, one noticeable effort is the contribution of the office to the fight against corruption. Malami’s no-holds-barred policy has affected all sectors of the elite community and people from all walks of life, including members of the ruling party – All Progressives Congress (APC), judges and justices, not excluding the former Chief Justice of Nigeria – Walter Onnoghen, former first lady, top military officers, including retired service chiefs, former Governors, former Ministers and many politically exposed bigwigs. Ironically, the former acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), charged with the responsibility of coordinating the various institutions involved in the fight against money laundering and enforcement of all laws dealing with economic and financial crimes in Nigeria, was removed from office and is now facing a probe on allegations of corruption. The spate of high-profile convictions and recovery of looted funds and proceeds of corruption and money laundering by the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) is attributable to the commitment of the Office of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, which supervises and superintends their activities. Malami could be forgotten tomorrow, but the firm precedents he has laid in the fight against corruption may not be forgotten. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION