As parts of its diversification plans, Mikano International has acquired the franchise right of two Geely automobile vehicles, which are assembled in the country. Under its subsidiary, Mikano Motors, the company now assembles Geely EC7 Sedan and Geely X7 Crossover Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) at its automobile plants along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State. Conducting journalists round its facilities over the weekend, Mr. Ezeh Evaristus, Sales Manager, Mikano Motors, said that its assembly plant has the annual capacity to carry out about 5,000 units of the Semi Knocked Down (SKD) of the two brands. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He, however, said that the country’s economic power at present prevented it from carrying out its full capacity, but assured that Geely, which he described as a global brand had come to stay in Nigeria. Evaristus explained that in a bid to make the brands customer-driven, the vehicles could be driven manually and automatically, stressing that though, a Chinese product, but had recorded top scores in European Car Assessment Programme (EuroNcap), adding that the company had recently acquired Volvo, Lotus and several premium brands to further position itself as an emerging leader in the automobile industry. Coscharis Unveils Four Renault Brands, Assembles Two In Nigeria As Mercedes Launches All-New GLB Into Nigerian Market He assured that the current auto brand was entirely different from the former Geely cars Nigerians were used to, stressing that its state-of-the-art facilities and features made it stand out of its contemporaries in the market. He said: “Before Mikano could get the franchise right for these vehicles, Geely Global Research and Bay visited Nigeria and conducted a survey, the result of the survey is what you are seeing here today. These Geely cars you are seeing are fully tropicalised. The cars are sep-tronic because we want to satisfy our customers. “The wrong perception made about this brand has to change. It was so because of the poor management of those that managed it in the past. Also, Geely had not achieved the status it reached today, then. They use to call it a China brand, but now; it has metamorphosed into a global brand. Geely has invested so much in research and development, with enhanced technology. Also, Geely has acquired various globally and respected brands. “For instance, Geely acquired Volvo 100 per cent and that is sharing technology, Geely own London Taxi 100 per cent, Pronto 49 per cent, Lotus; 50 per cent and several others like that. All these are what Geely has brought together to change the narration. For instance, some of the features you found in premium brands are now in Geely cars at very affordable rates. On after-sales service, Evaristus said that Mikano Motors was enticing enthusiasts with cheaper rates, various discounts like five years warranty, three years cooperative insurance, three years free service and many others on each vehicle acquired from the company. Besides, he said that in a bid to ensure easy access to spare parts, the automobile company had opened four regional offices across the country to catre for each region. He said: “The bad experience of Geely in the past was due to after-sales service. We want to conform to global standards in our operations; we want to ensure that we don’t have fake spare parts of Geely brands in the market. “Spare parts are being supplied to all the channels. We have service stations for our brands and we are supplying spare parts. For the Northern region, they are being supplied from Kano and Abuja, South-south and Southeast, we supply from Port Harcourt and for the Southwest, we supply from Lagos.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION