LAGOS  – The Nigerian economy is still cash-dependent as most transactions are done in cash. The number of ATMs in the country has, however, not been able to meet with the high demand for cash. Experience of banks customers who thronged automated teller machines (ATMs) in the last one week and especially few days to Christmas in Lagos and major cities and towns in the country has been frustrating as most of the ATMs were dry. Aside from the ATMs, some banks’ customers who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT also confirmed that they experienced poor transactions through other banking payment platforms, especially the mobile apps. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! As a result of the development, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), said it will investigate the reason behind cash shortage in some Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) in Lagos which had left many customers distrusted and without cash. A report some months ago found that bank customers in Nigeria are the heaviest users of Automated Teller Machines (ATM) in the world. Access Bank Commissions 50,000 Closa Agents To Cover Nigeria Access Bank Brings Banking Closer To Nigerians With Over 50,000 Closa Agents The study by EY, a global business and financial advisory firm, also showed that Nigerians have the highest sensitivity in Africa and the second highest globally to close accounts based on poor experience. As at the third quarter of 2020, ATM transactions recorded a boost, as transactions increased from N3.741 trillion to N5.05 trillion within the period under review, indicating a gain of 35.09 per cent quarter-on-quarter . The highest value of transactions via ATM was in March (N1.75 billion), while the lowest was in April with N991.97 billion. The number of active ATMs in Nigeria dropped to 17,518 in December, 2019. This is a loss of about 1,213 from the 18,731 ATMs recorded in March 2019, according to data from the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS). With the population of Nigeria above 200 million, the country’s ATM per Capita (number of Automatic Teller Machines per 100,000 Adults) as at December 2019 fell to about 8.75. This is down from the 16.92 ATM per Capita recorded by the WorldBank in 2018. Nigeria’s ATM per Capita Dropped to 8.75 in 2019 as Banks Avoid High Cost of ATM Maintenance Some customers claimed that most of the ATMs are not dispensing cash and yet debit their accounts, or are often out of service or claim no network, leaving them with no option but to seek alternatives to get cash for their transactions. Also, some customers accused the CBN of conspiring with banks to reduce cash in circulation, leading to shortages at the ATM. Investigations revealed that some ATMs that are either faulty or looted and vandalised during the #ENDSARS protests are still not dispensing cash. Some ATMs that are not faulty, but due to network issues are also not dispensing cash thus causing scarcity of funds, thereby, leaving customers to patronise Agent Banking. Sandra, a student she had to visit at least five different banks before she found a working ATM to withdraw from. She is also not alone as several Nigerians have complained about the difficulty of finding dispensing ATMs. Johnson Ake, a frustrated bank customer, said: “It looks like all the banks in Nigeria are going through some kind of madness. I just cannot explain why we are having this kind of problem at a time like this”. Ikem Okuhu, a public affair analyst said, “No cash in all branches around my area. Even cashback at a petrol station was a big deal. Another bank customer, Dire Johnson, said: “Seriously, banks in this country need to be sued. I used an Access ATM card twice with no cash and I got a debit alert. No refund, 72 hours had gone and I am planning to see them at the bank after the break. Omotoyosi Arogundade said: “Can’t initiate any transaction, mobile app not responding”. Mrs Kudirat Abiodun, a trader said: “I think that there is a conspiracy here so that all these POS operators around can make their money,’’ Abiodun told some people who wanted to make cash withdrawals. The CBN‘s Acting Director, Corporate Communications, Osita Nwanisobi, while speaking against the background of complaints by customers that the shortage of cash in ATMs was a deliberate attempt by banks to encourage them to patronise Agent Banking services, said that the apex bank will investigate the complaints by customers. He said: “ATMs were introduced so as to ease the sufferings of the people”. However, Nwanisobi described as “preposterous” insinuations that the regulatory bank conspired with commercial banks to ensure there was no money in the machines. “It is highly preposterous for anyone to say that CBN connived with banks to deprive people of their money this season. “The primary purpose, for which ATMs were introduced, is to ease the sufferings of Nigerians and to make banking easier and convenient. “I assure the public that CBN will investigate the matter,’’ he said. According to CBN, agent banking is “the provision of financial services to customers by a third party (agent) on behalf of a licensed deposit-taking financial institution and/or mobile money operator. POS kiosks to the rescue This demand gap has pushed more Nigerians to turn to POS kiosks for their cash needs. The NIBSS report showed strong cash movement on POS as the value of transactions on POS spiked to reach N460.9 billion in October. This shows that over N55 billion was moved in October alone. Francis, a banker confirmed that there was a drop in the number of active ATMs in the country. He explained that several issues like mutilated notes which jam machines, irregular supply of cash, power issues especially offsites can cause an ATM to stop working. He added that the ATM business is sparsely profitable compared to other channels, as cost of maintenance is high and profit is usually shared by 3 parties – Terminal owner, Card issuer, and Switch companies like Interswitch. This means that banks will probably not be in a hurry to provide regular maintenance or repair of an ATM machine if it is damaged. Unsurprisingly, a considerable number of new POS Kiosks have sprouted in the last few months. The NIBSS report shows that in October alone, over 32,000 new POS devices were registered with over 23,000 deployed across the country. The total number of deployed POS devices now stands at 420,850. In 2020 alone, over 117 thousand POS machines have been deployed in Nigeria. Dre, an upcoming musician, in chat pointed out that he has seen at least four new POS Kiosks in his area in the last month. Although he said he doesn’t patronise them, he revealed that a lot of people patronise the kiosks. Nigerians turning to POS Kiosks for cash withdrawal shows an unusual albeit positive effect of Nigeria’s dependence on cash. The all-round increase in POS usage in the country not only means that Nigerians are accepting digital forms of payment, but also that the popularity of POS is growing. Increase in PoS deals The value of transactions via the two digital payment platforms – Nigeria Interbank Settlement System Instant payment system and Point of Sales (PoS) terminals – across the country rose to N95.89tn from January to August this year. The two platforms recorded a 39 per cent growth in value of payments when compared to an aggregate of N69.01 trillion in the corresponding period in 2019. A breakdown of data obtained from Nigeria Interbank Settlement System showed that NIP grossed N89.9tn from January to August this year while PoS deals were worth N5.99tn during the same period. In the first eight months of 2019, total NIP transactions amounted to N67.05 trillion while PoS payments were valued at N1.96 trillion during the same period. As banks, financial technology firms and telecommunications companies intensify efforts to deepen financial inclusion, the volume of instant money transfers also grew by 63 per cent from 702.11 million deals recorded in the first five months of 2019 to 1,144.7 million transfers carried out by banks in the corresponding period this year. In January this year, instant money transfers valued at N10.3tn were reported by NIBSS, compared to N8.11 trillion in the same month in 2019. In the following month, the value of NIP transactions was N9.97tn compared to N7.47 trillion NIP deals recorded in February 2019. The banks grossed NIP transactions valued at N10.97 trillion in March 2020 as against N8.58 trillion in the same month last year. NIBSS statistics showed that in April this year when Lagos, Ogun and Abuja, among other states, were on total lockdown, the value of instant transfers dropped to N7.01 trillion compared with N8.28 trillion in April 2019. In May this year, the value of the transfers increased to N10.41 trillion as against N9.04tn in the same period of 2019. The value of NIP deals in June 2020 was valued at N12.26 trillion compared with N7.87 trillion recorded in the corresponding period last year. In the following month, instant transfers valued at N14.34 trillion were recorded as against N8.97 trillion in July 2019. August saw the value of NIP peak at N14.65 trillion as against N8.73 trillion in the same month last year. Analysis of the NIBSS data showed that the value of PoS transactions also grew by 206 per cent to reach N5.99 trillion from January to August 2020 as against a total of N1.96 trillion recorded in the first eight months of 2019. According to NIBSS data, the total value of PoS payment in January 2020 was N313.43 billion in a total of 41.31 million deals compared with N222.92 billion in January 2019. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION