A Nigerian group in the diaspora known as Ngbo RENAISSANCE group has lauded the political philosophy of the first executive governor of Ebonyi State, Nigeria and a prominent indigene of his homeland Dr.Sam Egwu as worthy of emulation by all. Ngbo renaissance group the USA, a social-cultural group he conceptualized in 2018 that seeks cooperation and unity of all Ngboejeogu peoples in diaspora towards championing a broad-based developmental framework for human capital development, socio-economic advancement of Ngbo and her people. The Ngbo RENAISSANCE group is based in the United State of America (USA) was formed by Mr. Ezekiel Elom ogbonna. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! According to the convener in an address presented at the organization’s first convention in new York city at the weekend said narratives of negative commentary of his people changed at the divine emergence of Dr. Egwu in 1999 as the governor of state. He stated that factors that had hitherto drawn Ngbo nation to the backwaters of modernity to include inexposure and inaccessibility of the people to sound educational/infrastructural facilities, unavailability of frontline political leadership cum economic Mentorship . [FREE] Download Independent ePaper – 23rd December 2020 Ilana Omo Oduduwa Gets Interim Executive Council The cultural enthusiast that stated prior to 1999, nothing in the positive was ever heard of Ngbo, the nation of such gifted and sophisticated authocthonous people was never mentioned. However, the aggressive rural development, massive human capital empowerment which were the hallmarks of Dr. Sam Egwu,s administration catapulted Ngbo to national and international limelight, we cannot but ever remain eternally grateful to the sage of our time for his pioneering and pathfinding efforts for our people. He continued. “We watch very keenly the happenings back home, we are in constant touch with events at home especially it affects politics which essentially drives other ancillary factors of development. “We have particularly found Aka Dike Ndigbo to be standing higher than the murky waters of politics, we are aware of the unsubstantiated barrage of infantile allegations against him. We understand the current shenanigans, the undercurrents and manovuerings in the political landscape of the state yet he has remained unwavering to his steadfast and unblemished welfarist ideologies. We view his stand in the present political chess game with great admiration .” Mr. Ezekiel ogbonna who is also the President/CEO of International foundation for refugees and migration IFReM at the United nations new York city Emphasized that the organization remains solidly the former governor in the face of the present political gerrymandering . Mr. Ogbonna, however, bemoaned the decay in infrastructural and other facets of Ngboejeogu nation to include insecurity, youths restiveness, lingering skirmishes and bloodletting from tribal communities around Ngbo, these issues he pointedly specified as factors that scare people in diaspora from investing at home and called on authorities to address this menace urgently. He also condemned youths over dependence on political patronage and advised them to demphasize politics and pursue other economic and professional engagements for self sufficiency actualization , he canvassed corporation and collaboration amongst Ngbo peoples in diaspora to fashion ways of bringing home ideas and self help programs that could help bring development to Ngbo . He stated as an example, his foundation, Ezekiel Ogbonna Foundation is setting the ball rolling with 5 million naira developmental initiatives in his village of Oshiagu amia Umuogudu Akpu with scholarships to many students of secondary and university up to masters degree and financial grants to numerous youths for vocational and business training. The foundation is also drilling many boreholes to provide his community with portable water, we must find a way to partner with the government to uplift lives of our people for greater tomorrow,” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION