PORT HARCOURT – It is a fortnight now since Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari in his magnanimity appointed a Sole Administrator to manage the affairs of the Niger Delta Devel­opment Commission (NDDC), after sacking the Professor Kemebradi­kumo Daniel Pondei-led Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the commission. The appointment of the former Executive Director Finance and Administration (EDFA), Barrister Effiong Akwah, an integral part of Pondei’s regime, as Sole Adminis­trator, has sparked up an avalanche of criticisms across the length and breadth of the Niger Delta region. The critics base their arguments on the provisions of the Act that set up the NDDC which has no place for a Sole Administrator or anything like interim committee. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Though the bulk of the critics and the major beneficiaries of NDDC establishment, the Ijaws, are of the opinion that on no account should the President by the lobby of the Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio, appoint an Oron man from Akwa Ibom State as the Sole Administrator of the Commission, many more groups have given their nods for the decision. A coalition of Ijaw groups com­prising of Committee for the De­fence of Human Rights (CDHR), Ijaw Young Entrepreneurs and In­vestor Network (CINEBD), Centre For Ijaw National Economic and Business Development, (CINEBD) and The New Age Initiative (TNAI) led by Bristol Alagbariya Emmanu­el and Barrister Henry Peter Ekine have argued that the appointment of Akwah was not only against the Act Establishing the NDDC, but a complete aberration. Buhari Acknowledges Sacrifices Of 20 Doctors Killed By COVID-19 Kaduna To Upgrade Hospitals With N4.6bn The appointment, they argued, is a gross violation of Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11 of the extant Niger Delta Development Com­mission (Establishment) Act, 2000, which provides for the statutory structures of the NDDC, including the Governing Board, Management Committee and Advisory Commit­tee consisting of the Governors of the nine Niger Delta states. “We are proceeding to court to seek judicial interpretation and enforcement of the NDDC Act, 2000, so as to save the Niger Delta Development Commission from imminent collapse,” they fumed. Since the dissolution of the Bar­rister Bassey Dan-Abia led board, the Commission has witnessed so many leadership changes in a very short spell. From Nsima Ekere who was re­placed in January, 2019 to Prof Nel­son Brambaifa, Acting Managing Director (January, 2019 to August, 2019), six months. Then, Dr. Enyia Akwagaga, as Acting MD (August, 2019 to October, 2019), two months. It was followed by Dr. Joi Nunieh, as Acting MD (October, 2019 to February, 2020), four months, Prof Kemebradikumo Pondei, Acting Managing Director (February, 2020 to December, 2020), 10 months, and now Barrister Effiong Akwa, as Sole Administrator (December 12, 2020 till date). Between the regime of Brambai­fa and that of Pondei, the commis­sion was engrossed in a season of free fall in terms of sleaze. Under the watch of Brambaifa, so much billions of naira from the NDDC was alleged to have been di­verted to fund the last 2019 general elections. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the former governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Henry Dickson openly accused the University Professor of practically sponsoring the last elections with over N20billion of NDDC money. He never disputed that accusation. Some persons alleged that over N200 billion must have been spent for that electoral exercise for the All Progressives Congress (APC), to win in the south-south states, particularly, Rivers State. The Ijaw coalition group said the ongoing external forensic au­dit does not in any way justify the continuous appointment of an “il­legal and unlawful management system” which clearly contravenes the Act that establishes NDDC and provided for its statutory struc­tures. Interestingly, several parastatals and agencies of government have been audited forensically. NNPC was audited by PriceWaterHouse Coopper, yet the management structures, operations and activ­ities were never interfered with up till date. It said appointing and inaugurating substantive manage­ment structures cannot affect the activities or outcome of any ongo­ing forensic audit. “We hereby urge the President, Muhammadu Buhari to appoint and inaugurate the substantive Governing Board, Management Committee and Advisory Commit­tee, as the statutory structures that can be accountable to the people in line with the enabling Act. We de­mand strongly, that the Minister for Finance, Accountant General of the Federation and any other Authority, as well as the Oil and Gas Compa­nies should not release any statutory funds to the Sole Administrator or any other designation being ille­gal and unlawful contraption,” the group pleaded. Last week, another objection was raised in Warri, Delta State when the Oil Mineral Producing Communi­ties Traditional Rulers Association (OMPCOTRAS), converged to take a deep look at the appointment of Sole Administrator for the NDDC. The group expressed worry over the deafening silence of the National As­sembly over the development. “We urge the NASS to make a representation to the president and prevail on him that it has become an illegality too many and it is time to halt this madness and inaugurate the board duly appointed by him. “We also have at our disposal that a whopping amount of over two hun­dred billion (N200 billion) has been either mismanaged or stolen within the last one year as a result of this illegal contraption that has pervaded the NDDC with no single project to show for it. There has not been any attempt to inaugurate single project in the region for the last three years,” it said. In a seven-point communique is­sued at the end of the meeting and signed by Chief Kingsley Arthur, head of the Association, the tradi­tional rulers issued among other things a 14-day ultimatum to the federal government to reverse the appointment of the Sole Adminis­trator or approach the court of law to do the needful. “It is the resolve of the trustees to challenge the President’s action in court if within 14 days the ap­pointment of Mr Effiong Akwa is not reversed. While the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), The Avengers and other mil­itant organizations were allegedly planning to truncate the flow of crude by bombing pipelines in pro­test to the appointment of a Sole Ad­ministrator, the Leadership, Peace and Cultural Development Initia­tive, (LPCDI), another coalition of ex-militant “Generals” across the nine NDDC catchment states con­verged on Port Harcourt, Rivers State to commend President Buhari for appointing Akwa, as the Interim Administrator of the NDDC. The group described the ap­pointment as a good news to the people of the Niger Delta region, due mainly to the administrative competence demonstrated by Akwa as the Acting Executive Di­rector of Finance and Administra­tion in the Commission. “We are truly grateful to Presi­dent Buhari for giving priority to competence and wealth of experi­ence in the choice of the appoint­ment of the Interim Administrator. We have incurable faith in the ca­pacity of Barr Effiong Okon Akwa to efficiently deliver on his man­date as the Interim Administrator of the Niger Delta Development Commission”, the group said. In a statement jointly signed by Chief Reuben Clifford Wilson, Pres­ident, Mr. Nature Kieghe, Secretary and Mr. Joshua Opia, spokesman, the group pledged its support to the new face of the NDDC, saying “we hereby wish to congratulate Akwa on his well-deserved appointment as Interim Administrator, NDDC and we also wish to assure him of our unflinching and unalloyed sup­port to help him succeed in his new assignment. We pledge to give him our support anything he needs us.” The ex-militants further called on “all critical Niger Delta stake­holders and youths to give him the needed support to succeed as Interim Administrator. It is time to eschew bitterness and anti-de­velopmental activities and focus on the holistic development of the Niger Delta Region. Let us give peace a chance and allow Akwa to deploy his robust wealth of knowl­edge and experience to effectively discharge his duties as the Interim Administrator of NDDC for the ac­celerated development of the Niger Delta Region.” The Leadership, Peace and Cul­tural Development Initiative is the umbrella organization of over 95% of the First Phase Leaders under the Presidential Amnesty Programme, popularly known as Ex-Generals in the Niger Delta struggle. Meanwhile, the genuine anger of millions of Niger Delta peo­ple is not about who occupies the headship of the NDDC. The Pres­ident of Nigeria in the same Act establishing the NDDC has the power “to control” the affairs of the Commission. Such power cov­ers appointment and otherwise of the Commission. NDDC is at the beck and call of the President of Nigeria. What the people of the oil bear­ing region desire most is to see political crooks and their cronies who deep their sleazy fingers into the tilt and steal so much billions without any recourse to the pur­pose at which the commission was established in the first place, are investigated, prosecuted and sent to jail. Under his watch, Pondei who collapsed at the National Assem­bly during the probe of N82billion spent by the Commission, another N6.2billion palliative fund was al­legedly shared among themselves. The former IMC boss and his men are expected to appear before the Senate again on January 26, 2021 to own up or deny how they spent the huge amount of money on pal­liatives that were never seen. By the records, the sacked IMC spent N1.121billion on projects communication, N744million on security, N248million on stakehold­ers’ engagement and N1.956billion on Lassa fever. There was N900mil­lion allegedly spent for illegal mat­ters and N1.3billion on communi­ty relations. The long list of this sleaze runs into a mirage. Hon Sobomabo Jackrich, chair­man of the palliative distribution committee told the Senate Commit­tee on Ethics and Privileges in a petition that the sacked Pondei led IMC squandered the N6.2billion meant for the provision of palli­atives for the vulnerable people of the Niger Delta to cushion the danger of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chairman of the Ethics Com­mittee, Senator Ayo Akinyelure, on his part upon receiving the pe­tition said that he was not aware of the purchase or distribution of any palliative. This position now leaves Professor Pondei and his dis­ciples to explain what happened to the N6.2 billion budgeted for that purpose. An independent group had also alleged of a humongous fraud in the scholarship scheme of the Commission to Nigerian students studying abroad. A statement made available to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT from Act for Positive Transformation Initiative (APTI), issued by its head, Directorate of Research, Strategy and Programme, Ko­lawole Johnson, said the circum­stances surrounding the payment of the NDDC scholars were unfor­tunate. The group alleged that the offi­cials of the NDDC had become no­torious in the act of plundering the resources of the people, noting that the sacked IMC had mismanaged funds meant to develop the region. “While it has refused to pay genuine claims, the interim man­agement of the NDDC has never stopped indulging in all manners of frivolous payments for dubious and non-existing contracts in its unrelenting quest to scavenge the commission’s resources. This is the same management that paid itself a scholarship fund without any scholarship award. Despite its weak and incoherent denial, our team has supplied necessary details to support the revelation. “Some management staff have also made refunds of this illegal and fraudulent self-scholarship payment to an anti-corruption agency. For the avoidance of doubts, below are some of the de­tails of beneficiaries of the said fraudulent scholarship largesse. Prof Pondei N5,650,000 – UBA – 1002290165, Dr Cairo Ojougboh – N5,650,000 – ZENITH – 1002428409, Ibanga Etang Bassey – N5,198,000 – FCMB – 0316998016, Bernard Mik­ko – N5,198 – ACCESS – 0022954307, Zuofa Charles –N5,198,000 – GTB – 0108702878. The list goes on. “The above was meant to be the first tranche as the management had planned to pay themselves more in three instalments but for the cover that was blown open by our team. “The management attempted to deny this shameful fraud, the de­scription/purpose of payments on official documents and bank trans­actions read 2020 NDDC FOREIGN POSTGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP. Though the sum involved in this is probably inconsequential con­sidering the tens of billions they have plundered within the last one year, it is, however, enough to sack and prosecute the utterly corrupt management, if the government is serious about fighting corruption. “As we speak the management is presently processing and back­dating fake contracts worth over N7 billion for payment. Our team is, however, keeping a tab to en­sure this is exposed to the public, especially now that it appears the Presidency and the National As­sembly have become abettors in the ongoing putrefaction in the commission,” Johnson and his group alleged. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION