Benjamin Okezie Kalu, Spokesman for the House of Representatives and lawmaker representing Bende Federal Constituency on Wednesday declined to comment on the rumoured planned impeachment of President Muhammadu Bahari by the National Assembly. Our Correspondent had sought his reaction to the rumour in many quarters that the Nigerian Parliament piqued by the worsening insecurity in the country vis-à-vis the President’s inability to contain it, is preparing an impeachment document that will remove him from office, declared “I have no comment”. “I said so because the issue has not been brought to the House”, he added. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! However, Kalu told newsmen in his country home, Bende town that he would rather concentrate in working for the people of Bende federal constituency by providing the dividends of democracy and ensuring their enhanced welfare than devote attention to the issue of impeachment of the President. At a town hall meeting he held earlier, the federal lawmaker while assuring his people of better days ahead, gave out some wheel chairs for the disabled, motorcycles, sewing machines, wrappers, bags of rice, grinding machines, cash etc worth millions of naira to the traditional rulers Bende federal constituency and people of his constituency. 2020: Oyo SUBEB Has 95% Projects’ Completion Despite Pandemic – Chairman David Mark, An Incurable Nationalist – Bauchi Gov Ben Kalu also used the occasion to task royal fathers in Bende and people of the federal constituency to continue to support his representation, pointing out that he was sent to Abuja to work and not to sleep. He described the year 2020 as a horrible year, but acknowledged however that despite the challenges people witnessed in the year, God in His infinite mercy made provisions for them by allowing him (Kalu) to make useful impact that will remain indelible in their lives. “Nothing has stopped me, your son, from making great impact in my representation of Bende people and also giving the singular opportunity to provide credibly and excellent leadership in this constituency. Despite being a firs time House member, I was selected to make the first motion, in fact the motion that brought the 9th House of Representatives into existence. “Since June 2019 when we’re inaugurated, I’ve initiated 15 motions, moved 36 bills and contributed in programmes and indeed quality governance of the both the House of Representatives and the nation as a whole. I’ve represented you in the ‘Green Chamber’ creditably. “It’s not easy for a first time legislator to be elected as the spokesman of the House of Represetatives, but I made it as the House’s spokesman due to hard work, the grace of God, your prayers and support. I was sent to Abuja to work and not sleep”, he told them. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION