Prophet Layi Bamidele, Senior Pastor of Christ Glorious End-time Evangelical Church shares with CHINYERE ABIAZIEM his yearnings for a healthy church and a better Nigeria. Excerpts: Glorious End-time Evangelical Church is 15, what are your reflections and prospects as the founder? The ministry to the glory of God is 15. To commemorate the anniversary, we had a week-long convention that started November 30 and ended December 6. We had praise night with many guest gospel singers present. In the last 15 years it has been very rough with challenges but God has been our guiding light and has been faithful to us. He has not failed us and we return all glory to Him. To everything that has to do with God the devil will always strike but God will always have His way. I will eternally remain grateful to Bishop Bolu Martins, of the Kano Diocese of Living Faith Church Worldwide (Winners’ Chapel) who gave me the privilege to be trained under his watch in those years. When asking God for grace upon calling me to the prophetic ministry after the order of Prophet Joseph Ayo Babalola, I told Him I want to be prophets of old like Elijah, Elisha and Samuel. Except I’m not in the country otherwise I’m always in the bush that is prayer mountain. For where I see this church in five or 10 years to come is that God is the one that knows where He is taking His ministry but from the revelations He has given me the ministry is going very far. I do tell my people that what you can picture about your future is your future. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! You surely have vast experience gathered over the years which younger ministers can learn from… Most of the youths of these days do not want to wait for their time. Many out of ignorance do not discover God’s plan for their lives. If you see a young man who has gone to Bible school and graduated, yes he genuinely has a call but while serving in a ministry for one or two years he will tell you he has seen a vision, where God said he should start his own ministry. It does not work like that. Joseph had a dream of his future, he was 13 years old. That was the treasure he carried for his life. He met with Pharaoh in the palace at the age of 30. Prior to that he served in the wilderness for 17 years under the tutelage of God’s discipline in order to fulfill his destiny. He died at the age of 110, so for 80 years he was in enjoyment. Let me give a brief background of myself. I was born a Muslim and I hated Christ, I never wanted anyone to mention Christ were I was. My hatred for Christ aside been a Muslim was because I was domiciled in the north which really hardened me. When calamities began to befall me, I never knew God had a hand in it. Every man that will reign must be trained. So the time of my challenges was my time of training which was unknown to me. In 1983 when I was in the civil service, I got married and I lost the first baby my wife and I had. After 10 days I lost my wife. After three years I remarried and three children produced from the union died. As I was mourning my children, my wife also died. I remarried and my wife gave birth, before I knew what was happening I lost the baby and the mother. Wrong Association (2) Group Demands For Christian President In 2023 It’s sad to hear you recall your losses… Yes. In my wilderness experience I lost three wives and five children. It was after I left Kano for Rivers State that I met Christ and God told me to go back to Kano where I will be spiritually groomed. That was when I came under Bishop Bolu Martin’s training and was ordained a minister in three months of joining the church -Winners Chapel. I was reluctant because I felt I was too young a Christian to be ordained but I was told there was something God has placed in me. For three years I wore a pair of shirt and trouser. But to the glory of God today, I’m experiencing God’s faithfulness. What I’m saying? Even when the youths hear your story they still will want overnight breakthrough and do not want to exercise patience. They will start building their own ministry with the members of the church where they are presently serving, which ought not to be. Are you satisfied with the performance of our national leaders? God used the occasion (emergence of COVID-19) to teach our leaders a lesson that God is the ultimate God and life cannot be bought with money. Early this year at Efon mountain in Ekiti State, God told me He was going to pass through Nigeria, He wants to take the lives of the people troubling this country away. But the form God was going to take their lives wasn’t revealed to me. The first COVID-19 attack started from the villa, money could not help to save them. Running abroad could not save them as there was no place to run to. Everything that God has spoken is happening from stage to stage yet they have refused to change. 2021 see what will happen, most of our leaders including governors will be thrown on the streets. Forget about the threats they are issuing, let them be warned they cannot silence the mouth of the masses. We say we are practicing democracy but I do not see Nigeria practicing democracy. This government is an autocratic government, if it is the government of the people, by the people and for the people they will listen to what the people are saying. Look the youths of the #EndSARS protest, government said it has heard them but keep persecuting them. There is no nation that ever grows without its youths. By the grace of God I have traveled the four corners of the world, I see what the youths are doing, if our president will go outside and deride his own youths, what a shame, what a nation. I have never seen a nepotic government like this present one. You lock up the border in the south but leave that of the north opened. God is here to judge everybody, you cannot silence the masses. It’s not possible. You are one of those who drummed support for the coming of this present administration… Yes. I supported Buhari’s emergence because in 2013 I said Jonathan was not going to win the election. At that time we felt Buhari was the best candidate but later God told me Buhari was not the saviour of this country that his government was going to be like that of Saul in the Bible. How do you mean? Saul started well, he never thought he would become a king in the land of Israel. God picked him to reign after he lost hope. Along the line he started misbehaving and God abandoned him. If you look at I Samuel 15 the same prophet used by God to announce his enthronement was the same person used to dethrone him. God said Buhari was not his choice as the people were too impatient for God’s choice. Jonathan on his part condoned the looting of the treasury because he wanted a second term forgetting that it is only God that gives power. Buhari was the most preferred candidate but he was not God’s choice which is why we are facing the several challenges presently in the country. I pray that this government will have a change of heart. In fact I’m ashamed at what comes out of the mouths of the spokespersons all because of their bellies forgetting about God and that power is  transient. Whenever you are in power use it to impact lives positively because the same people you left on your way up will be the ones you meet on your way down. One of the people needed to better the country is Peter Obi. We saw how he governed Anambra State, how he executed several projects, how he did not owe civil servants and how he left a lot of money in the treasury. He was initially removed because he did not allow them to loot the treasury. I’m not a politician but as a citizen I have the right to express my feelings. What is your thought on the call for the sack of service chiefs? People have advised the president to stop recycling the same service chiefs and bring in new blood. I do not know what is special about them? Hardly can you open the pages of the newspapers without finding gory stories of killings and kidnappings by Boko Haram. It is as if there is no security at all. You think God won’t judge you when you chose to kill harmless youths who were speaking up against injustice instead of channeling the same vigour in fighting the terrorists in Sambisa forest? I am not a fan of Obasanjo but I know what he would have done in fishing out the terrorists in Sambisa. It is disheartening that people are benefitting from the sorrow of others with innocent blood wasted on daily basis. The same members of Boko Haram sect who allegedly turn a new leaf are absorbed into the society whereas the families of slain soldiers and policemen are not cared for. What kind of country is this? Let them restructure the country, the centre is too powerful, there is need for decentralization, otherwise things will continue like this. Also, when you travel and come back to Nigeria you will be ashamed of this country. May I say the worst administration is this present one. Why is it that Nigerian leaders are not too known to replicate in the nation the developments they see when they travel to other countries? You see, they only go to buy houses. They should not worry, God knows how to deal with them. You know he started already with COVID-19. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION