P/HARCOURT  – Nigerian Agip Oil Company Ltd (NAOC), a subsidiary of Eni SpA has faulted the claim by some Niger Delta group over alleged victimisation by the company. NAOC which operates in over sixty countries said its activities are carried out in compliance with national and international laws and regulations and international best practices. The management of NAOC in a statement said that the company is guided by strong values to ensure fairness, transparency, honesty and integrity in all its activities. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “The Company’s system of policies and internal controls respects the highest international standards”, it said. “Eni’s approach to human rights is integrated into the Company’s mission; it is an integral part of Eni’s identity and its way of doing business. Rivers Community Barricades Afam Power Plant Rivers Govt Urges Investors To Take Advantage Of Friendly Tax Regime In Rivers “It builds on the dignity of every human being and on companies’ responsibility to contribute to the well-being of local individuals and communities. Indeed, Eni believes that business must respect internationally recognised human rights, as established in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”. The statement added that recruitment, personnel rotation, careers, tenders, procurement activities – as well as any other decision of the company – follow strictly laid down rules and regulations, defined at HQ level with a set of checks and audits. “As a consequence it is not possible for any individual to take unilateral decisions without going through the processes and hierarchies. Allegations that one ethnic group is secretly controlling processes, contracts and budget of the company are absolutely false. “More than the half of the managerial personnel in the company is from Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta States while the remaining are shared by 18 states of the country including Imo State that is one of the operating locations since over 55 years. “Also, about three quarter of the total matriculated workforce comes from Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta States while the remaining are shared by 18 states of the federation. Claims about domination of one ethnic group over another, and marginalisation of Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta States are false and baseless. Nigerian Agip Oil Company Limited does not have any affiliation to any political bodies, as it is against its regulations. “False and unverified claims on how the Company is conducting its operations are irresponsible: they can endanger the lives of personnel of the company from a particular part of the country, could incite unnecessary ethnic violence, they create confusion, tension and instability. “We denounce the Group’s malicious publications, news conference, videos against our company and expressly reserve all our rights and remedies in relation to whoever disseminates false information about the company’s activities”, it concluded. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION