ADO-EKITI – The nearly completed multimillion Naira Agro-processing Farm in Ekiti State christened Bamisil Farms has promised to inject not less than 2,000 metric tonnes of processed foods into the Nigerian market annually. Mrs Yemisi Owoyemi, the promoter of the farm, who disclosed this to journalists, said the factory, when completed will process rice, cassava, plantain and yam into flour among others. Omoyeni hinted that the  factory seats on four acres of land along the Federal Polytechnic road in Ado-Ekiti. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Bamisil Farms has over 150 hectares cultivated farmland. With the newly acquired farmlands, it will provide over 200 direct and part-time employment gains. “The first phase of the project is set to be completed by Q2, 2020 and will produce almost 2,000 metric tons per annum of processed foods. Never, in the history of Ekiti State has the agro sector witnessed such a huge chunk of investment before. Birthdays: Buhari Greets Governors Of Nasarawa, Kebbi, Dogara Pope Scraps Public Angelus prayer Amid COVID Precaution This investment is an absolute game changer for farmers across Ekiti, who has the capacity to harness the opportunities presented by the factory. This plant will open up new crop opportunities to the farmer and thus increase the farm income and employment.” She explained that factory would provide crucial farm-industry linkage which helps accelerate agricultural development by creating backward and forward linkages opportunities as well as adding value to the farmers’ produce, and increasing the farmers’ net income. Said Omoyeni, “The choice of siting the factory in Ado-Ekiti is primarily informed by the need to be closer to basic raw commodities. You must know that food shortage is on the rise in Nigeria and this posts a daunting challenge as well as opportunities to everyone. “Knowing fully well, that Ekiti State is predominantly an agrarian State. This factory has been positioned to harness the agricultural produce of the farmers and ensured these produces are optimally maximized to prevent waste that has hitherto been synonymous to farm produce in recent years for a lack of facility such as this. “It has over 100 hectares cultivated farm land to form the bulk of raw materials to the factory. “We are ready for robust collaborations and partnerships with farmers across our catchment areas and beyond.” To meet the demands of the factory, the management is set to finance out-growers in Ekiti, Ondo and Osun to fulfil market demands. “The economic values of the factory to Ekiti State and sister States are unquantifiable. Unemployment rate in Nigeria has gone through the roof in recent times. Employment opportunity is only a fraction of direct benefits to the people of this state upon completion.” “One of the major benefits of this farm is the employment gains for the people,” she said. “In Nigeria, everyone is running after blue-collar jobs that do not exist. There are large influxes of people into cities around the country; however, there lies an abundance of wealth-creating opportunities where they left behind. “Take for instance, in the US, 22.2 million full and part-time jobs related to the agricultural and food sector were created, that’s 10.9 per cent of total U.S. employment in 2019. Our farm (Bamisil Farms) is set to boost employment opportunity for the people of Ekiti and environs,” Omoyeni stated. She urged farmers in Ekiti to curb wastage and encouraged them to patronize the agro-food processing factory when open to business. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION