A boisterous community in Orumba-South of Anambra State is poised to seek the state and the federal governments’ nods to explore various natural resources deposit in the area for its development. The agitation is coming from the community’s new traditional ruler, writes RAYMOND OZOJI. Ogbunka, a community in Orumba-South local government area of Anambra State is one of the towns richly blessed and endowed with both human and natural resources. The community could be best described as a virgin land and a vision untapped by the federal and state governments as they have not intensified the exploration activities therein. The community has the potentials of laying the ‘golden egg’ for the nation at large. Ogbunka community whose neighbours includes Umunze, Umuchukwu, Owerreezukala, Nawfija, Eziagu, Eziama, Umueji and a host of others, also has boundaries with Imo, Abia and Enugu States respectively. The community consists of five villages, which are Awuka, Agbala, Umunebo, Agwuoba and Isiokpu respectively. A closer appreciation of the town also reveals its agricultural potentials. The need to tap into the rich natural endowments of Ogbunka community becomes very pertinent as the town holds great proficiency for internally generated revenue for the people and government of Anambra State. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! The town came to the fore at the reception ceremony of the Igwe-elect Igwe, Dr Foster Ezenwa Ihejiofor at the Ogbunka Civic Centre where the five villages congregated before the forefathers and ancestors of Ogbunka Kingdom in thanksgiving to God for having bestowed on the community another traditional ruler who takes over the custody of the customs and traditions of Ogbunka Kingdom thirteen years after the death of the former monarch. Amidst canon shots, masquerade performances, Ogene music and other traditional dance displays at the Ogbunka Civic Centre, Igwe Dr Foster Ezenwa Ihejiofor revealed that the Ogbunka Kingdom could be the goose that would lay the golden eggs for Anambra State because it is abundantly blessed with resources that could change the fortunes of the state and the nation at large. Those For Whom Christmas Is Bleak Shiloh In Ogba: Street Party Or Prayers? Aside from being a professional medical doctor by training, Igwe Foster Ezenwa Ihejiofor is also involved in the marketing and export of agricultural produce from Anambra State to Europe and America. It would be most pertinent at this juncture to state that Dr Ihejiofor exports Ugu, Onugbu vegetables, snails and other things to other countries of the world. He is also an industrialist, philanthropist, as well as a young man whose love for his rural community is inexplicably incredible. It is however worthy of note that Anambra State is arguably the state in the country with the largest number of successful people who are traditional rulers today. These people are successful not only in business but also in their respective professions. There are academics, bankers as well as other professionals amongst Anambra traditional rulers; hence Igwe Foster Ezenwa Ihejiofor by his coronation has joined the growing number of highly successful people who are now traditional rulers in Anambra state. Igwe Ihejiofor said, “Ogbunka people are blazing the trail in sports, information and communication technology and other fields of human endeavour. We have many tourist sites like the Ogbunka waterfall, Ogba cave, and many others that we are going to develop for tourism and leisure. “Apart from petroleum deposits in the Ogbunka Kingdom, we also have plenty of spring water for commercial purposes; we have deposits of clay which can be refined and used as raw materials for paint and pharmaceutical industries. We have white Celica, which can be processed into a glass. We have ironstones, which can be used as granites and processed into slabs for surfacing of furniture. “We have Iron ore. We also have petroleum deposits in the Ogbunka Kingdom, which was discovered as far back as the 1960s by the Shell Company that visited Nigeria then and of course with petroleum, you can talk about gas, which can be explored for domestic and industrial use. “Then we have waterfalls, which can be harnessed for electricity and a large forest of bamboo which can be processed into ornaments. Like every other community in Anambra, we have arable lands for agriculture and we also have palm trees that can be processed into many other things. “What the federal government should do is to allow communities to harness and process their natural resources for rural and urban development. They should open it up and let the people take charge of their natural endowments through the creation of the requisite enabling environment,” the traditional stated. In spite of these apparent business opportunities in Ogbunka community, Igwe Ihejiofor acknowledged Governor Willie Obiano’s magnanimity and compassionate disposition to developmental issues in the state. The traditional ruler said despite having the ideas to attract government attention to Ogbunka community, he said the governor’s impartiality to governance is exemplary. The monarch explained that what attracted him to the Governor was that he was touched by the needs of the people. He said he was with the governor on a certain day when a national television announced that someone needed about five million naira for surgery and surprisingly the governor called the TV station and said he was going to take up the challenge of the medical bills for the surgery. Igwe Ihejiofor said that Ogbunka kingdom is blessed to have him as the traditional ruler because he loves to see people happy. Cognisant of the fact that infrastructural demands were a common challenge in all the communities across the state in particular and the country as a whole, he said Ogbunka community under his watch will set up gas turbines to generate electricity within the capacity allowed by the Nigerian Electric Power Reform Act to help spur industrial development in the town. He noted that as for water supply, Ogbunka community has a lot of spring waters, which can be harnessed with electricity, stressing that Ogbunka kingdom in the next ten years will become an ultramodern city comparable in infrastructures to the United Kingdom. Igwe Ihejiofor also disclosed that the Ogbunka Kingdom has been a beneficiary of Governor Willie Obiano’s twenty million naira Community Choose Your Project Scheme. He said the governor has been faithful in his communal projects and that the first twenty million naira given to Ogbunka community was used in the development of the markets, emphasising that Ogbunka has received forty million naira for the governor’s community development scheme and the projects were being executed in the community. He, therefore, added that Ogbunka would unite for peace, progress and development under his reign as the traditional ruler of Ogbunka kingdom in Anambra state. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION