A group, Christian Social Movement of Nigeria (CSMN) with a former key 2014 National Conference member, Pastor Bosun Emmanuel as Executive Secretary has called for a serious-minded Christian President to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. CSMN, in a statement signed by Esanerovo Agbodo, stated that a Christian President in 2023 is non-negotiable. According to the group, the election of a Christian to pilot the affairs of Nigeria in these hard times will restore balance and moderation to the country after the flagrant display of politics of religion seen in the past five years. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! While reflecting on President Buhari’s inability to unite Nigerians due to sentiments, nepotism and tribalism, the group called on Nigerian leaders in the future to learn lessons from the hardship Nigerians are suffering today because of round pegs in square holes. CSMN insists that Nigeria belongs to all citizens whether Muslim, Christian, Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo or any other religion or ethnic group. Buhari’s Leadership Is Like That Of Saul – Prophet Bamidele Wrong Association (2) “Therefore, everyone should be treated equally to achieve a better nation for all,” it stated. It added that President Buhari has failed to prove himself as a father to all Nigerians irrespective of ethnic and religious affiliations “and this is bad for the progress and unity of the country.” CSMN therefore called on any Christian that will take over as President of Nigeria in 2023 to exhibit love and kindness to all Nigerians in appointments and in the general development of the country without religious or ethnic sentiments but competence. Among others, the group also called on all Christians across Nigeria to note that: “God Almighty is interested in politics because He is the Kingmaker. The process of crowning rulers in this age is through politics, therefore the Church must redefine its theology of separation of Church and State. This is because Christian participation in politics is now an existential issue. Christians must therefore deliberately, strategically, and intelligently be involved in politics. “That Christians who see politics as a channel to satisfy selfish personal interests from the proceeds of corruption should amend their ways and place the collective interests of the Body of Christ and the entire Nation above personal interests because they will give account to God on the last day. “That the search for a credible Christian consensus candidate to contest and occupy the position of the President in 2023 must commence now and that Nigerian youths must be strategically engaged to understand the political dynamics of Nigeria and be deployed as game changers to save and preserve their future and the future of our great country.” SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION