David Majekodunmi is the newly elected chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Lagos State chapter. Having been elected to man the ship of the Institute in Lagos, he is set to bring his vast years of experience across major economies to bear on the practice of architecture in Lagos and subsequently Nigeria. NKASIOBI OLUIKPE had a chat with him. Excerpt: Why did you contest for that position? It is because of the passion I have for Architecture. Having worked abroad for 18 years and experienced the way Architecture is practiced there, my passion is for Nigeria to meet up with global best practice in Architecture. Besides, I have been involved with the Institute for about 10years. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! While considering your passion, did you also factor in some of the challenges associated with being in that position? Yes, I did. There will be challenges. But to be a good leader, you should be able to face all challenges no matter what they are and where they are coming from. N4.2bn Westlink Iconic Villa And Ibadan Urban Renewal Battle For Covenant University Land Rages On As you know, there is politics everywhere; but politics differ. Some are there for personal interests, some are involved for the masses and others for the legacy they can leave behind. So yes, there are challenges, but one of my goals, is to unite everyone and to take the Chapter to greater heights. You once said you were going to unite the chapter, in other words, you realize the challenge in the chapter is a very peculiar one. What template are you looking at, because you will agree with me that similar attempts must have been made previously? My first approach with the new executive committee is to have a retreat with all the past chairmen. At the retreat, we will look at the theme of the retreat and using the SWOT analysis we will analyze the weaknesses and threats, study the strengths and opportunities, and come up with required strategies and the way forward to achieve our goals. We will also consider programmes for the tenure that will give greater impact. When we consider the level to which the past chairmen took Lagos State chapter, they performed well. They left big shoes to put my feet into. I will endeavour to leave bigger shoes for my successor to fit into. One of the challenges we have is incursion by other professionals in the built environment. We have our Act that regulates our profession and so does the other professions. We should all endeavour to abide by the provisions in the respective Laws that regulates us, rather than trying to be relevant in areas that does not concern us. The ARCON Act that regulates our profession and the Acts of the other built environment regulatory bodies basically follow the British template. Having practiced in the UK for 18 years, it is highly imperative that we abide by the relevant law that regulates each profession. Architects have been designing houses for people and you don’t have any building or edifice to call yours as a chapter. What is going on? Our Secretariat is at Architects Place, 2, Idowu Taylor Street, Victoria Island. That’s the NIA National Secretariat. How about the Chapter’s? NIA National Secretariat is in Abuja. Isn’t the chapter supposed to have a structure of its own? One of my priorities is to liaise with government for land, which is the best way to go because it will be suitably located, cheaper with minimal encumbrances. There, we can have our edifice. By the Grace of God, we hope to have our own chapter edifice in the nearest future. Was this year’s LAF conducted virtually or it wasn’t conducted at all. What has been the impact on architectural practice? Lagos Architects Forum (LAF) has held successfully in 10years. This year’s was meant to be the 11th edition, but because of COVID-19, LAF could not hold. The idea of holding it virtually was muted but was eventually dropped because virtual exhibitions held by other organizations were not as successful. Turnout is not as high as holding conferences physically. The setbacks occasioned by COVID-19 forced everybody to adjust globally. So, we are looking at successfully holding the 11th edition of LAF in 2021 by the special Grace of God. Having practiced abroad for 18 years according to you, what is one thing that is missing here as against in the civilized economies? Domesticated Building Regulations is one major factor missing in this part of the world. The aftermath of EndSARS exposed a lot of things. In some buildings abroad, fire rated elements are used. Assuming there is a fire in a room, depending on the fire rating of the elements used for the enclosure (doors, walls, ceiling, floor, etc.) it will take about half an hour or more to move to another space. Severity of destruction in several places burnt down may have been reduced if this aspect of regulations was considered in the design. Now, part of my agenda as the Chairman of NIA Lagos State chapter is to advocate domestication of the National Building Code. The National Building Code gives a minimum requirement for the materials and workmanship to be used. Divided into four parts, the National Building Code has minimum requirements for pre-design stage, design stage, construction stage and post construction stage. Non-domestication of the National Building Code has created a lot of anomalies in the built environment. Today on the streets of Nigeria, there is nothing like post construction which is maintenance of buildings. In architecture, the rule of thumb is that your building must be sustainable for a minimum of 25years to 50years, depending on the type of building, materials used and methodology. What’s the Architects’ position on the high rise of the cost of cement which has altered the cost and volume of construction? This is an unfortunate matter that has to do with the system and government policies. Architects are displeased with it and can only appeal to government to intervene and do the needful. One way or the other, it affects every member of the built environment? Talking about the cost of cement as a major factor in construction, a country that has a stable economy will be able to determine or regulate affairs. But I can say it emphatically that our government is not doing enough. This is affecting construction and the development in the country. I have been involved with development in several countries and partnered with South African and American professionals on different projects. If Government can do the needful, regulate and stabilize foreign exchange, reduce the need for importation and promote local content, the problem will be majorly solved. Is there no alternative to cement? Recently, I have been involved in design solutions using shipping containers. Our pilot project is modular schools with interactive learning spaces. Is it cost efficient? It is about 20 per cent cheaper than the conventional brick and mortar. The cost effectiveness will be more appreciated when there is mass production. How about durability? Shipping containers travel on the ocean and high seas with high saline content for many weeks without corroding. This is because they are made from high grade steel with corrosion resistant coatings that enable them to survive harsh conditions. Globally, shipping containers are being used for many types of buildings. They can be stacked up to four containers high. This is an aspect we are seriously considering in place of the traditional brick and mortar. So now, what do you see as the bottleneck you might need to scale in the course of your tenure? There is no way you will not have bottlenecks when serving in an office. I will look at in three ways – Government, Private Practitioner and the Economy. What is the relationship between NIA Lagos and ARCON? ARCON is the regulatory body while NIA Lagos State chapter is a chapter of the Institute. As stated in our Act, you cannot be registered by ARCON if you have not been admitted as a full member of the Institute. You must pass through NIA first before being registered by ARCON. So, as far as I am concerned, there is no soured relationship with ARCON because we are one body and in that one body we stand. How about this B.Sc. / HND Dichotomy? Let’s do what we met on ground. I am a product of HND, because of all this discrimination, though I was privileged, I had to go abroad to do my B.Sc, postgraduate and RIBA after many years of which I now came to do my NIA. Look, I have the feel for the HND graduate and this not the beginning and it is not going to be the end. We have past presidents of the NIA who are HND holders. But they went through the cadre and today some of them are influential architects in Nigeria today. Why all these dichotomy, why being selfish to these children, why not encourage them to be greater than you. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION