Barr. Anselm Ojezua, a former state chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) recently led over 150,000 members of the party to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on the reason why he dumped the APC and solutions to the insecurity crisis bedeviling the nation. Excerpts: What led to your leading over 150,000 APC members to PDP and how do you feel since joining the party which is now the ruling party in Edo state? I feel good in the PDP. It was clear to us that we were no more needed in APC. From the decision of the National Caretaker Committee to form an alliance with the Edo Peoples Mandate (EPM) in Edo state, the APC did not have a choice but to take a decision and move out of the party to the PDP. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! How do you feel as a former state chairman of APC now joining PDP as a member? What is wrong with that? As far as I am concerned, I don’t see anything wrong with that because I was a member of APC before I became the state chairman. So, I don’t see anything wrong with it. Adefuye’s Bombshell On 2023 Presidency Causes Stir Eminent Nigerians Rate Obasanjo Among Nigeria’s Best Leaders When you announced that you are defecting to the PDP, many people said that they are not surprised because you allegedly work for the PDP during the governorship election. How true is that claim? To those saying that, I will just say that I sympathise with them because they don’t understand the rudiments of politics. The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the APC few days dissolved all States, Zonal and National Structures of the party. Could that be the reason why you and others left the party? That was not the reason why we left. I really don’t know the logic behind that decision, particularly when after the dissolution of the excos, they now said they should remain as caretaker. Meanwhile, the dissolution of those executives is the violation of the constitution as it truncated the tenure of those people who were elected in congresses. Again, appointing them as caretaker throws up the issue of constitutionality. I think the action creates more problems for the party more than solution but at this time, I am indifferent because I am no longer of their party. Whatever they do, I wish them luck. Will you return to the APC if the grievances that led to your exit are addressed? That will be too little; too late. It is just as the dissolution of the National Working Committee (NWC) led by Adams Oshiomhole after Obaseki had already left the party for the PDP. If they had dissolved the NWC before Obaseki left, the governor would have stayed in the APC and he would have led APC to victory in the governorship election. So, what they did was medicine after death and the same applies to us who have left the party for the PDP. What is the implication of your departure for the APC in Edo state? I believe that is the end of APC in Edo. The only thing that may give them a small name is the EPM members that are still struggling with that name. But I don’t see them as a formidable political association in Edo state again. The challenges that are facing the party at the national level may even quicken the death of the party in Edo. You became the APC chairman in Edo state during the tenure of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as Edo state governor. What is your relationship with him at the moment? I have no relationship with him whatsoever. The same politics that brought us together has brought us apart. I think this is a classical case of in politics; there is no permanent friend or permanent enemy. We were friends but our friendship was based on principles. He violated those principles and I responded accordingly. There have been concerns over rising cases of insecurity in Nigeria especially in Edo state where the Head of Service, Anthony Okungbowa was kidnapped and his driver killed. Many Nigerians have blamed the Service Chiefs and have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to replace them. Do you subscribe to this idea? I think for people to blame the Service Chiefs for the insecurity in the country shows that they don’t have understanding of security issues. The primary responsibility to provide internal security does not even rest with the armed forces. If anything at all, the armed forces are just helping out. The responsibility to provide security under our constitution rests with the various governments. That is the federal, state and local governments. The constitution states clearly that the primary purpose of government is the security and well-being of the citizens. Therefore, we need to come up with a solution. The existing security apparatus, including that of Police, DSS and NSCDC clearly lack the capacity to deal with the issues that we face today. So, Nigeria needs to rejig her security apparatus. Each community must be assisted to protect themselves. Every community within a local government must be assisted to protect themselves. We must be organised security-wise. To me, I believe that the first step is to find legitimate means by which Nigerian citizens will be able to arm themselves in order to protect their families. So, how best do you think this can be achieved? Every community must be assisted to get equipment which they will use to protect their immediate environment. By so doing, they will then have the requisite intelligence whenever there is any security threat in their immediate environment; they are the first to know. Where the community fails, they rely on the local government for assistance and when that fails, the state steps in. We shouldn’t be waiting for the Federal agency to help us; you can see clearly that it has failed. It didn’t start today. This insecurity problem started several decades ago, it has just been growing and it is now time to look at it and tackle it headlong. Even in South Africa, people are armed to protect themselves. If you go to the United States, it is the same thing. We have reached that stage where Nigeria needs to look at this issue of community policing. How many policemen do we have to provide security for 200 million Nigerians? Look at the EndSARS protest that was hijacked by hoodlums. Immediately the hoodlums took over the streets, even our policemen were not available because they themselves were targets and you can’t blame them for it. So, this is not a time for us to begin to blame Service Chiefs. I don’t even subscribe to it. That is the prerogative of the Commander-in-Chief. We have to look at our environment and provide solutions to our security problems and it is real because all of us threatened. We must behave like people who are really threatened and we have to find a way to defend ourselves. If my children are not safe, I will do everything that I need to do to provide them safety. So, we have a collective responsibility for that and we must begin to look at things along that line. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION