LAGOS  – Following the Federal Government’s decisions at reopening the land borders with neighbouring countries, the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma has called on the Federal government to re-jig the Country’s import policies, adding that the unrealistic fiscal policies was responsible for importers in the country to shun Nigerian ports and utilise ports of the neighboring Countries, and by extension, causing huge revenue loss to the Government. The Governor, who was a former Chairman, Senate Committee on Customs, also decried the multiplicity of Customs units on the ports access roads and highways. He said that it was erroneous for Customs to seize consignments already cleared by its officers at the ports on the highways after exiting the ports. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Uzodinma, who was speaking recently, during the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), also called for a robust synergy between freight agents and Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). He said this will dissipate the challenges with cargo evacuation from ports and border posts. AMJON Holds Workshop On Blue Economy SON Needs Strong FG Backing To Succeed – MAN Boss According to him, this partnership would also foster the nation’s bid to diversify the economy and boost non-oil revenue with numerous potentials from the maritime sector. He said: “Cotonou port is very busy because of some unrealistic fiscal policies in Nigeria. What is the essence of placing the import duty of cars at 35% or more, when the country doesn’t produce cars? Isn’t it only reasonable for the government in Benin, Togo and other neighboring countries to peg their import duties at 5% to target Nigerian cargoes? “Nigerians don’t smuggle. Research has shown that those involved in big time smuggling in the country aren’t Nigerians. We know that those who do bulk importation of smuggled items are Indians and Lebanese. They go to Cotonou to clear the cars at 5% duties and explore the avenues of bringing the exotic vehicles via bushes and other unapproved border routes. “Until Nigeria is ready to assemble cars that are affordable, and can compete with those imported, we must allow people to bring in imported cars and build non-oil revenue for the country. “Government doesn’t really have a choice because of the dwindling non-oil revenue. The maritime sector must be harnessed as one of the viable alternatives and good fiscal policies would be needed to achieve this.” He advised that until Nigeria was ready to assemble affordable cars that compete with the imported ones, the government must allow people to bring in imported cars and build non-oil revenue for the country. He explained that the job of a licensed Customs agent was linked to national security, adding that, “If all security policies and programmes are sabotaged by you, it will not work. So, in the spirit of patriotism and national interest, I will urge you to close ranks with all agencies of government in the security sector and the business sector so that we will be able to protect our interest as a nation and unite Nigeria further.” Earlier in an opening remarks, the ANLCA President, Hon. Tony Iju Nwabunike said that ANLCA would continue to pursue the interest of members in the areas of operational challenges, and other government policies that are not favourable to the interest of the maritime industry at large. Meanwhile, ANLCA successfully elected nine members into its Board of Trustee (BOT). They include: Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Executive Vice Chairman of SIFAX Group, Prince Ozor Chukwura, Chief Kingsley Offor, Eniola John and Shamsideen Akanji. Others are Obi Azodo, Alhaji Isa Aliyu, Timothy Ayokunle and Chief Igwe Odinaka. The occasion was also used to decorate Senator Uzodinma as Grand Patron of ANLCA, while Chief Henry Njoku, another chieftain of the association was made one of the patrons of the Association. However, in a bid to ensure efficient contributions of elected officials in the association’s activities, the group’s constitution was reviewed to allow only single tenures for all elected leaders. Mr. Peter Ojo had moved a motion which was later adopted by more than two-third of the ANLCA members participating in the AGM. Similarly, the duration of the tenures for Chapter Executives was moved from three years to four years, while that of National Executives was moved from four years to five years and six years for Board of Trustee (BOT) members, all single tenures, but yet to be rectified, while two-third of the participants in the AGM also agreed that the five years single tenure of the National Executives takes effect with the current administration and subsequent elections for BOT and Chapter Executives. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION