In this piece, STEPHEN UBIMAGO writes on the antics of online scammers. It goes without saying that the recent COVID-19 restrictions had literally destroyed the livelihood of many Nigerians. Ever since, not a few have devised fraudulent means of extorting or scamming their fellow compatriots. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Some of the fraudsters hide under respectable or credible individual names or established even reputable, organisational names to perpetrate their heinous schemes. Recently, one Abimbola Fasasi, a legal practitioner, on a certain weekday got a call from a number not registered in his phone. Ikeja Metro Lions Club Elects New President Cab Hailing Service: Shocking Stories Of Illicit Sex, Cradle-robbers The caller sounded quite personable. He reminded him of him belonging to a certain WhatsApp group. Upon confirming to the caller that indeed he belonged to the group the caller announced to him that the group will be hosting a live seminar at a certain time in the evening of that day. He was however, to dictate the code back to him when he calls back. Few seconds later, he got a code in his message inbox. No sooner he was done opening the message than the fellow on the other end called again and asked him to dictate the code to him. Not long after, he tried to open his WhatsApp, but couldn’t. He got another message from WhatsApp indicating that he has changed his number, but how? When? He wondered. But the meaning of all this didn’t dawn on him until he got a call from his wife, who wondered what he was doing inviting members of a WhatsApp group to which they both belong to a money doubling scheme. He screamed, explaining to his wife that nothing of such was from him. That was when it dawned on him that he had been gamed by scammers. They had harvested his name (the respectable name of a lawyer) and were using it to invite people to money doubling schemes in all the WhatsApp groups he used to belong. Besides, he had lost access to those groups while the scammer was busy using his name to spread and perpetrate a scam. In another scenario, Joyce Adio, a hair dresser, opened an Instagram link to a WhatsApp account that was promoting a certain schemes with the nomenclature, “Opay Investment.” Its operation is reminiscent of the now rested MMM money-doubling scheme. The social media platforms generally constitute their operational base, especially Facebook. However the so-called Opay Investment agents are largely faceless and go by different monikers. They promise potential investors in the scheme a doubling of whatever amount of money (starting from N10,000) they commit into it. An operative of the scheme had posted on Facebook a video of a lady testifying to its authenticity. This generated a thread of responses corroborating the mouth-watering claims made in the said video by the lady. But the claims in the video also generated a good number of misgivings and curiosity from some respondents. The curiosity generated by the claims got Daily Independent into undertaking further investigation into the veracity of the entire scheme. While giving an impression of interest, Daily Independent anonymously engaged one of the agents by name “Susan” in a WhatsApp chat that ensued thus: Daily Independent (DI): Hello ma’am, I’m interested in investing, how do I go about it? Susan: You’re welcome DI: How do I invest? Susan: Opay Investment is a matrix system which gives you DOUBLE of your CAPITAL back in 45 mins after registration and investment. IT’S SIMPLE HERE!!!!!!! We trade with hard currency here like bitcoin. We make X3 triple of your investment and send you two part and we benefit one part. Example, If you invest with 100k within 45 minutes we make profit of 300k then send 200k to you and we profit 100k. This is not MMM where they merge people to pay each other, you receive your reward directly from the company into your bank account. DI: How do I register? Susan: No referrals needed before getting your payment. REGISTRATIONS PROCESS: To Register Kindly Send The Following Details… Account Name; Account Number; Bank Name: Phone Numbers; Registration Amount. DI: Can I start with N10k? Susan: Yes DI: Where do I pay to? Susan: I will register you first. Following the above chat, Daily Independent forwarded an account detail and proposed a registration amount. Responding, Susan quipped thus, “Ok. Please stay online while I register you now.” The chat continued: DI: So what next? Susan: Thank you. Your registration with Opay Investment is successful and your details have been submitted for processing. I’m done with registering you. Pay to Ademola Gloria, 8142817730 Stanbic bank. DI: Alright. Susan: Send me the screenshot of your payment after paying to enable me monitor and work on your payments. DI: Okay But no sooner had the chat ended than Daily Independent did a quick Google search and diligence on Opay Investment. This proved to be quite revealing. Daily Independent clicked on a link from the search results that took him to Opay investment’s Facebook page. But the feedback from Nigerians who had invested in the scheme was startling. One Owusola Gbeminiyi said: “I invested the money I have, then they called me to add more money because they have upgraded me, now no payment. Scammers. Run away from them.” Another scammed investor, Taiwo Awodi posted, “Good morning. I saw your video yesterday and I called you, then you registered me, and I sent thousands for a start. Till now you don’t even pick my call again.” One Imalips Nodully posted, “I invested 10k since afternoon. Till now no pay back.” Joy Ugwoegbu wrote, “This people scammed me and went away with my money. I invested with them…useless people. Please be wise out there. Don’t be a victim like me.” The complaints of fraud and lamentations on the thread were legion. Interestingly, not a single response came from any agent of the so-called Opay Investment on whose Facebook page these lamentations formed a long thread. About an hour after the chat, the said Susan called our Daily Independent, complaining she had yet to see a credit alert from him. She was easily easily dismissed with assurances that she would soon get an alert. Not seeing any alert after a long while following the last encounter Susan would call over and again, without any response. She would stop calling. Against this backdrop, the six steps for spotting an investment scam are here listed. 1. Verify credentials. Don’t fall for a fancy title or other trappings of success. Fraudsters hope that if they look successful, you won’t bother checking their credentials. 2. Don’t chase “phantom riches.” Be skeptical of investment pitches that guarantee a certain return or promise spectacular profits. They are what fraud-fighters call “phantom riches” that you will never see. 3. Ignore the “everyone is doing it” story. Don’t believe claims that “everyone” is in on the deal. Be wary of a sales pitch that focuses on how many people are investing, without telling you why the investment is sound. 4. Refuse to be rushed. If the salesperson tells you that the offer is for a limited time only, or that investment opportunities are limited, consider it a red flag. 5. Never feel obligated. Don’t invest because the seller gives you something for free. 6. Arm yourself with information. Learn to spot the red flags of investment fraud so you can protect yourself and your loved ones. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION