Barely three weeks after the House of Representatives directed the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), to suspend the first phase of recapitalisation which supposed to end by today, Thursday, December 31, 2020 by another six months, the exercise has suffered another setback as Incorporated Trustees of the Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria has obtained an interim order from Federal High Court in Lagos praying the court to stop NAICOM from the exercise. The shareholders under the aegis of Incorporated Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria led by Mrs Bakare is praying the court to restrain the NAICOM from continuing with the recapitalisation exercise while the court has ordered the Commission to discontinue with the exercise until the determination of the case. The hearing comes up on January 12 2021. Four days to the end of the first phase of the insurance industry recapitalisation, Justice C. J. Aneke in an interim order after hearing an ex-parte motion that was filed by the Incorporated Trustees of the Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria, issued: “ EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! An order for maintenance of the status quo ante belum as of December 21, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice already filed”. The Shareholders’ association had in a motion marked FHC/L/CS/1797/2020 that was moved by its lawyer, I. C. Ifedora, prayed the court to restrain NAICOM from taking further steps or issuing further directives or circulars for the purpose of enforcing the December 31, 2020, and September 30, 2021 deadlines for the recapitalization of Insurance and Reinsurance Companies in the country. BREAKING: NAICOM Complies With Court Order To Suspend Recapitalisation Prince Adewale: Why Insurance Is Important In Bringing Succour When It Matters Most It equally asked the court to stop the Defendant from imposing any restrictions on the business of any Insurance or Reinsurance Company for the purpose of enforcing NAICOM’s circular or directives on the recapitalization exercise, pending the hearing and determination of the motion for interlocutory injunction. The Applicant told the court that NAICOM had in a circular it issued in May 2019, called for an increase in the minimum paid-up capital for insurance and reinsurance companies in Nigeria. It said according to the circular, life insurance firms are required to meet a minimum paid-up capital of N8billion from its previous N2bn, while general insurance companies are required to raise their minimum paid-up capital to N10bn from N3bn. The Applicant further averred that NAICOM equally raised the regulatory capital for composite insurance from N5bn to N18bn, while it increased the minimum capital of reinsurance businesses from N10bn to N20bn. It said the firms were however, ordered to comply with the new directive, not later than December 31, 2020, and September 30, 2021, respectively. Dissatisfied with the action, the Applicant, approached the court, praying it to among other things, to determine whether in view of the global pandemic, the economic recession and the destruction of public and private properties during the #EndSARS protests and the impact these factors have on the business of insurance companies, the refusal of NAICOM to rescind the recapitalisation deadlines was not an abuse of power and an unreasonable exercise of regulatory powers pursuant to the Insurance Act and the NAICOM Act. The Applicant applied for an order of the court to set aside the circular that imposed the stated deadlines. It urged the court to hold that carrying out of the deadlines would amount to divestment by NAICOM of their property rights in their investments. The Shareholders’ action came three weeks after the House of Representatives in a motion, directed the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to suspend the December 31, 2020 deadline given to Insurance and Reinsurance companies in Nigeria. The House in a motion by Hon. Benjamin Kalu hinged the suspension of the exercise on the COVID-19 pandemic and the current economic recession being experienced in the country. Kalu recalled that the law establishing the NAICOM empower the body to regulate the insurance sector in the country and to prescribe minimum paid-up share capital for insurance companies and intermediaries. Kalu, however, stressed that the negative impact of the COVID 19 pandemic has pushed the country into recession, causing a significant slowdown in economic activities while the liquidity position of both the government and businesses are seriously impacted, albeit, negatively. He maintained that in time like this, the best move by the government and regulators is to push more liquidity into the economy in a bid to stimulate economic activities, encourage spending and prevent job losses as well as support the indigenous businesses in the country. He emphasised this is pertinent because “in addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the industry was also affected by the aftermath of the #ENDSARS protest in which several insured properties were affected and to this effect, most of these insurance companies have tons of liabilities to settle in order to fulfil their obligations so as not to deny the rights of these affected insured persons.” Mr Babatunde Thomas, Managing Director, Legacy Insurance Brokers Limited, while Speaking on the issue, stated that for fear of dilution in their investment by foreign and local equity investors, the shareholders had to approach the court for a redress. In addition, Thomas noted that the inability of the shareholders to raise funds to up their shareholdings amid the recession could be one of the reasons they opted for court action to stop the Commission from further prosecuting the recapitalisation exercise. The Legacy Insurance Brokers boss also noted that the shareholders are not, however, praying for total cancellation of the exercise but for time so as to be able to mop up funds to up their investment stakes in the companies. Thomas therefore, urges the National Insurance Commission to pursue the acceleration of the matter for them to be able to continue with the exercise. Thomas said: “Court is where anyone that feels oppressed by the government can run to seek a redress and secondly Shareholders are afraid of dilution of investments where foreign investors take over the market in the cause of the recapitalisation exercise. Also the inability to raise the fund during recession could also ignite their fears hence the court action even when they are praying for time which is not to cancel the entire exercise. The only thing NAICOM should do at this stage is to pursue the acceleration of that judgement at the court.” Contacting Mr Baremike Thompson, a Director at NAICOM for his comment, he refused to comment on the issue saying that the issue is a policy issue and intergovernmental, adding that it is only the Commissioner for Insurance and his deputies that can speak on it not directors. Effort to reach Mr Rasaaq Salami, Deputy Director, Corporate Affairs of the Commission through phone calls did not yield fruit as he did not pick our SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION