Senator Senator Anthony Adefuye, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dismissed the claim by some Nigerians that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the party’s national leader will not get enough support from the Northern part of the country if he decides to contest in the 2023 presidential election.Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent on Tuesday, Adefuye who said Tinubu is a bridge builder whose influence cuts across all parts of the country said the former Lagos state governor has more and friends and supporters in the Northern part of the country than the South.“Those saying Asiwaju will not get the support of northerners are wrong because the man is even more popular and has many supporters in the North than in the South. He is the most influential politician in Nigeria today.  Even his northern friends have more access to him than those of us in the South here”.Also speaking on the controversy trailing the zoning agreement in the APC, Adefuye, a member of Lagos Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC)said most political parties in the country usually have a gentleman’s agreement that power should rotate between the North and South. He urged APC to respect the agreement.“The issue of the Presidency is an unwritten agreement; it rotates between the North and the South. Once a Northerner has been there for eight years maximum, it must come down to the South. So, whoever is thinking that it is the North and is ambitious to become the President in 2023 is daydreaming and wants to break Nigeria”.He also said it is the turn of the South-West to produce the President of Nigeria in 2023 as the only region that is yet to do so since the return of democratic governance to the country in 1999.According to him, those clamouring for the Presidency to go to the South-East are wrong as the region produced former President Olusegun Obasanjo who was in power from 1999 to 2007. He said Obasanjo is an Igbo man because his father hailed from Anambra state while his mother is a Yoruba woman.He added that while in office Obasanjo concentrated most of his efforts towards developing the South-East, including appointing five Ministers as well as the Central Bank Governor from the region while he completely abandoned the South-West.He said: “I believe that in 2023, the APC will zone the Presidential ticket to the South. When it comes to the South, then it will be narrowed down to the South West because that is the only region that has not produced the President since 1999. It has always been the North and the Igbos.“Some people may argue that what about Obasanjo? Obasanjo is not a Yoruba man. He is an Igbo man from the South-East. His father is from Anambra while his mother is a Yoruba woman. And that was why during his tenure, he completely ignored the South West. For example, throughout his eight years, he did nothing on the Lagos- Ibadan expressway.“But he did a lot for his people in the South-East. He picked five Ministers from there and even appointed the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria from Anambra where his father comes from.“So, it is right for the South-West to demand for the Presidency in 2023. What we should be doing now is working towards 2023 to ensure that the Presidency comes to the Southwest. The Southwest has never produced the President before,” he said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION