LAGOS – Nigeria’s major opposition par­ty, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said many Nigerians who are already fed up with the misrule of President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progres­sives Congress (APC) are yearning for its (PDP) return to power in 2023. After 16 years in power, begin­ning from the return of democratic lost power to the then oppogovernance in 1999, the PDP sition, the APC, in the 2015 presidential election, after President Muhammadu Buhari, the APC flag bearer, defeated Dr. Goodluck Jon­athan who ran on the PDP platform. ­ Buhari secured re-elec­tion on the APC platform in 2019 by defeating Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, a former vice-president, who was the PDP’s presidential candidate. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Speaking exclusively with Daily Independent on Tues­day, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, said having tested both parties, Nigerians have realised that the PDP is the only party that has their in­terests at heart. He said the PDP is filled with highly resourceful pol­iticians and experts who have what it takes to fix Ni­geria and proffer solutions to the myriad of problems confronting the nation, such as insecurity and economic challenges, which the APC had been clueless in proffer­ing solutions to. Buhari Vows To Wrestle Inflation Aggressively In 2021 Terrorists Trying To Enter South-West Through Oyo — Makinde “It is only the PDP that un­derstands the nuances of our country. It is the only party that is truly representational and has the interest of Nige­rians at heart. “As such, the party that understands this country and can govern this country effectively is the PDP. “Having experienced both parties, Nigerians have seen the clear-cut difference and will take a decision in the 2023 general elections. “If you recall, last month, APC governors paid former President Goodluck Jona­than a visit. “Why will they do that if indeed, as they claimed then, Jonathan was a failure? “Will anybody want to associate with a failure? Everybody flocks around a successful person and that is what the PDP represents. “Like we said then, the vis­it is a clear endorsement of the acceptability of the PDP administration and it is also an indication that the APC, in 2015, only created artificial symbols of misgovernance, corruption, and other alleged misgivings just to discredit our party and grab the levers of power to achieve their self­ish desires. “It is evident that the Jon­athan administration suc­ceeded in office basically be­cause our party understands the nuances of our nation, which we translated into people-oriented policies and programmes, in line with the manifesto of our party, to make life comfortable for Nigerians,” he said. In its response, the Lagos State chapter of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) said it is impossible for the PDP to win the presidential election in 2023 as it will no longer be in existence by then. Seye Oladejo, the party’s publicity secretary, said Ni­gerians would not forget in a hurry how the PDP plunged Nigeria into her current woes which the APC-led Fed­eral Government had been working to address. “The PDP, as a party, can­not speak for Nigerians as the creator of our enduring problems as a nation. “The socio-economic, po­litical, and security challeng­es remain the legacies of the PDP years that Nigerians will not forget in a hurry. “It’s just a figment of their imagination to think that anyone would wish for a return of the years of the locust. “There’s no doubt that with robust policies and de­termination on the part of the APC-led Federal Govern­ment, the years ahead hold lofty promises for all and sundry. “Besides, I’m not certain there will still be a political party by that name by 2023, with its unabated free fall and its leadership at daggers drawn.” Also speaking, Tanko Yunusa, a former presiden­tial candidate and National Consultative Front’s (NCF) Head of Public Affairs Bu­reau, said Nigerians are tired of the PDP and APC as they have become devastated with the two political parties. He said Nigerians who are tired of recycling products are looking for an alternative in 2023. “Nigerians are tired of lack from the past and pres­ent. They are looking for new alternative. “They have tried to give their hope in the past they were disappointed. Present­ly they are more than devas­tated. “They are looking for fresh ideas and younger genera­tion not recycled product”. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION