Lagos- The half salary sanction placed on players of Plateau United Football Club of Jos for poor league start is beginning to generate though criticisms from football technocrats on professional football management in Nigeria. Recalled the Tin City outfits lost their first 2020/2021 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) game at home to Kwara United Footballer Club of Ilorin last Sunday 0-2; by Monday December 28, decision to punish the players with half salary by the Club’s management followed. Christian Chukwu, a former Super Eagles coach against this background on Tuesday believes the development has further justified the absence of truly professional football league in Nigeria. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Chukwu in a phone chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT from his Enugu base however reiterated, “I have said it many times that there’s no professional football in Nigeria.” “Otherwise, are the players on contract in the first place? If they’re on contract, is it in the contract that if the team lose a game or if they’re not doing well, the players will go on half salary? CAF League: Ikhana Writes Off Enyimba Federer ‘Very Disappointed’ After Withdrawing From Australian Open “This is not practicable in climes where there’s real professional football league, because the players could take legal action against the club if there’s genuine contact between them (players) and the club; but in Nigeria what we have is verbal contract and the players have no say in situations as this,” Chukwu explained. Chukwu, a one-time manager and two-time coach of Rangers International Football Club of Enugu was however quick to add that if there was an internal issue which is inimical to the progress of the club, the management could be justified in its action. “While we condemned the half salary decision, I feel there maybe an issue of indiscipline in the camp, long before now, which management feels tougher sanction as half salary will make them sit up – just on temporal basis – I’m just thinking aloud,” Chukwu concluded. Meanwhile, coach Godwin Izilein, has questioned the managerial ability of the club’s management members saying the decision would be counter productive as “two wrongs don’t make a right.” “This is not how to manage a football club; for months ( nine) there was no football action in the country; this implies that the players of any club will definitely be match rusty; all the management needed to do was, set up a panel to look into the issue and come up with a report on the way forward to avert more disaster games, because the league is just starting and the situation can be normalized. “After all, what is the worth of these players, talking about their take home; insurance as regard health and safety as well as pensions as professional footballers? It’s all nothing to write home about; so, the management should rescind its decision if they want the club to progress,” Izilein maintained. Almost all the NPFL clubs in Nigeria are owned and managed by the state governments who see them as “parastatals” of the ministry of sport, negating the professionalism of the players. It would be recalled also that the Jos-based side only recently were bundled out of the CAF Champions League campaign by Simba SC of Tanzania, having lost 0-1 in Jos in the first leg and a goaless draw in Tanzania. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION