Coscharis Motors Plc, a subsidiary of Coscharis Group has re-launched the Renault auto models into the Nigerian market with complementary aftersales facilities in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Uyo states. Mr. Josiah Samuel, the Group Managing Director, Coscharis Group, told auto journalists in Lagos that the company had in July 2019 announced its partnership with the Renault Group to represent their auto brands in the country. Samuel noted that the auto company was to commence Renault vehicle sales based on locally assembled models and fully built models for Nigeria roads, stressing that the plan was to ensure that it continually deliver value for money by providing quality automobile like the Renault brand vehicles to discerning Nigerians at affordable price range. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! He added: “So far, we have secured all the requisite Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) ratings and approvals to commence assemblage of the Duster and Logan, while we are presently bringing in fully – built Koleos, Kwid and Oroch (which is to be introduced at a later date).” According to him, Coscharis Motors is offering customers the options of 1.0 to 2.5-litre engines across the five models. Coscharis Unveils Four Renault Brands, Assembles Two In Nigeria As Mercedes Launches All-New GLB Into Nigerian Market Samuel insisted that Coscharis was fully equipped to handle all aftersales services and repairs, noting that the company had the original parts coupled with the right tools to fix the parts and Renault certified technicians to fix vehicles. “With the technical back up of our Renault partners, we are positioned to deliver seamless aftersales services across our available facilities across the country for both existing owners and potential new customers. “This gives us the confidence from our pedigree in representing iconic brands in Nigeria that we are set to simply delight our customers once again with the Renault brand as the exclusive franchise owner in Nigeria,” he added. The Koleos is designed with a sense of detail and personality enhanced by its sleek appearance and athletic curves. Behind its chic urban styling, Koleos has the DNA of a true 4X4. The all-mode 4×4-i technology allows you to select the transmission mode that your vehicle will need to be equally at home on dirt, mud or sand as it is on tarmac. Koleos comes with a range of driver assistance technologies including active emergency braking, blind spot detection system, easy trunk access and R-Link 2 media system. The other model unveiled at the occasion was the Duster, which the company said customers can choose from 1.6 litre to 2.0 litre engine, but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The interior of the all-new Duster reflects its generous, adventure-seeking nature. The spacious cabin is bright and reassuring. The driver and passenger seats provide plenty of support to ensure your comfort wherever you go. The upholstery features a high-quality finish, as does the dashboard, where particular emphasis was placed on ergonomic design. Also, Logan has an even more modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, New Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. New Renault Logan has five generous seats to comfortably accommodate all your passengers. Enjoy useful and smart new storage areas, including a phone pouch and a front passenger side net pouch. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION