There is no doubt that since the end of the profoundly devastating and destructive two World Wars that occurred several years ago, no pandemic had, to a large extent, literally turned the entire world upside down even after wreaking incalculable havocs, including loss of precious lives across the globe for almost one year. Like child’s play, the highly dreaded, daring and deadly virus known as Coronavirus for which no vaccine and permanent cure formally approved by world’s health body – the World Health Organisation (WHO) has been found reportedly erupted in Wuhan Province in China sometime in December 2019. Since then, the novel virus which has assumed the position of pandemic, has spread to over 180 countries distorting economies, altering ways of life and living standards, as well as killing hundreds of persons daily across the globe. Coronavirus, otherwise known worldwide as COVID-19, neither fears nor respects anybody. It knows no tribe, religion, creed, language or occupation. For almost a year now that it has been fiercely, furiously and ferociously rocking the world and tormenting everybody, including the mighty, the rich and influential personalities in politics, sports, entertainment, business and industry, amongst other fields of human endeavour, a number of casualties have been recorded. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! COVID-19 is no respecter of any personality no matter how highly placed or connected. Although the pandemic is dangerous, especially judging by its immeasurable consequences on human lives, it has some positive attributes too. To a great extent, it has helped in checking the excesses of the opulent, as well as shakers and movers of happenings in the increasingly lucrative business of politics in Nigeria. Coronavirus is everywhere. No sane person anywhere in the world can pretend the virus does not exist. In 2020, it is the only common factor that has so far united the world in recent time. Like a colossus, it has shaken the world to its foundation. Since money cannot be used to bribe COVID-19, political and business leaders across Nigeria have not gone beyond their boundaries. Due to suspension of international flights sometime ago, they were compelled to remain in the country. If not for COVID-19 and the need for them to obey all protocols and guidelines as constantly advised by Boss Mustapha-led Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the WHO, they would have been globe-trotting all over the place for medical treatment at public expense. For once, they all stayed in the country to receive medical treatment, thereby ensuring drastic reduction in humongous amount in terms of foreign exchange, lost to medical tourism annually. Breaking The Silence (1) Chief Bola Ige: 19 Years Without Justice For once, parents were able to stay at home to bond closely with their children and other family members. Some say number of pregnancies recorded during the period of lockdown was huge,. Thanks to COVID-19 which to reasonable extent, has instilled good measure of discipline in Nigerians – the rich and the poor. Although some citizens still believe the pandemic is not real even after terrorizing the expansive world for exactly 12 months now, no reasonable person wants to experience untimely death. According to a late regae maestro, everybody wants to go to heaven but nobody would like to die. When it comes to obeying rules and regulations to ensure orderly society, Nigerians are very disobedient. Unfortunately, as soon as they step out of Nigeria and arrive in any of the neighbouring countries with well organised ways of life, as well as clement operating business environments, they readily subject themselves to rules and regulations laid down by their host–countries. Nigerians do not want to die but they enjoy flouting COVID-19 protocols and guidelines. In spite of the frightening, disturbing and alarming characteristics of COVID–19 pandemic, some Nigerians still strongly and unrepentantly believe that the virus is not real even after official reports have continuously disclosed men and women of “timber and caterpillar” the wicked and unremorseful virus has so far consumed not only in Nigeria but also in many parts of the globe and urgent need for citizens to obey COVID–19 protocols and guidelines to stay alive. The fact remains that only those that do not appreciate value of their precious lives that will continue to flout such vital protocols and guidelines. However, the worrisome aspect of it is that a careless or stubborn person that contracts the virus could easily infect unsuspecting careful citizens, thereby leading to its spread to other parts of the country, as well as possible rise in number of deaths in Nigeria. As at April 14, 2020, there were 1,989,004 confirmed COVID–19 cases with 125,739 deaths globally. Coronavirus hit Nigeria on February 27, 2020 while the first–ever fatality reportedly occurred on March 23, 2020. Till date, about 1,200 persons have been consumed by the pandemic in black Africa’s most populated country. There are fears that the number could increase, especially with non- chalant attitude of Nigerians towards COVID-19 protocols and guidelines which has invariably and expectedly led to significant surge in cases of those infected in the country where many citizens are pathologically undisciplined. Also, if this dangerous situation persists, especially judging by the fact that as usual, our leaders in various areas of national life are not exhibiting exemplary conduct for other citizens to emulate concerning strict compliance, another wave of COVID-19 may be imminent. Due to increase in cases, some advanced countries, in spite of their enviable achievements in science, technology and medicine, recently introduced another round of lockdowns in vital sectors of their economies. Death cases in such countries have also risen considerably. Incidentally, Nigerians seem to still believe that they have sustainable immunity against COVID-19 and could therefore, continue to treat the protocols and guidelines with utmost impunity and disregard. Repeated reminders concerning regular washing of hands with soap under running water, wearing of facemasks, as well as observing social and physical distancings seem to have fallen on deaf ears. This is saddening. More than anything, COVID–19 pandemic has dealt huge blow on every aspect of human endeavours across the globe. Since December 2019, whenever COVID-19 sneezes, the rest of the world including the world’s most leading economy – the United States (U.S.), have daily been catching cold. This was greatly demonstrated when the world’s most powerful political leader, outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump, did not only test positive for COVID-19 , his seemingly lackadaisical tendencies towards anti–coronavirus crusade, amongst other issues, robbed him of re–election recently. This clearly shows the prowess of the virus and crucial role it continues to play though negatively, in global affairs. Until universally– acceptable vaccine and permanent cure are found, the devastating and deadly consequences the pandemic would wreak on human lives may not abate. Since in recent times no particular scourge or menace has endangered millions of human lives and seriously threatened survival of over 180 countries so emboldenly and without showing signs to draw back, COVID–19 is undoubtedly My Man Of The Year 2020. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION