It took a six years trip from Chibok to Kankara for the aiders of terror in Nigeria to have their disgrace in full. When the Chibok girls were abducted in broad daylight and driven through military check points with attendant ochestrated international wailings to boot , only a few Nigerians could see through the whole drama that was unfolding at the time. In no time, the park in Abuja became a gathering point for their girls and other misaplied ladies to showcase their skills on televised indignation of “Bring Back Our Girls”. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! Intelligent people, of course, knew the girls were hidden by powerful forces and those behind the script also knew that the country was being taken on Taqqiya (depection). It was a very strong political game that showed how devious and low some fellow Nigerians can get in perfidy. Once the scheme was achieved, they sorted their own girls who were part of the game into choice appointment leaving the other ladies in the sun to continue the drama. How Poor Are Nigerians? Pantami’s Worrisome Autocratic Mannerism There was a limit to the tolerance of the owners of the game. When the deviant ladies remained adamant beyond the need of the game, they found koboko to chase them from the garden as nuisance of the fields. They knew they had been used but the shame of having been on it for long made them to keep it up as if they were doing a national service and not just vassals of power mongers. The truth of what really transpired will come out some day no matter how long. But God who cannot be fooled along with men was watching the whole game and laughing waiting for when to strike at the folly. He waited until they announced a week – holiday for the President in Daura, Katsina state. He had hardly departed the helipad when the same boys who kidnapped the Chibok girls struck at Government Science Secondary in Kankara and kidnapped hundreds of boys. It was as if God had prepared a full disgrace for these people as Presidential Spokesman, Garba Shehu, who, weeks back, was giving reason for the kidnap and killing in Southern Kaduna made a very reckless emission about only 10 boys having been kidnapped even when the state Governor, Bello Masari, admitted 344. Shehu had made a shameful apology but that he still has a job at the villa shows that he may not be the one something is actually wrong with. The country has lost count of times his interventions in public discourse had given him out as someone who knows more about Boko Haram than necessary and putting up defenses for them like when he blamed the 43 farmers killed by the group in Borno for not obtaining security permit before going to their farm. All the statements that came from the Presidency were so mild unlike the fire and brimstone against peaceful Lekki protesters maligned even in death. There was no instruction to the military to go after the abductors as if there was some understanding. The peak of it wad when the fact of having a Commander-in-Chief role was mixed up with Miyetti Allah Patron again as the terror Fulani group was named as the official negotiator for the release of the boys.Governor Masari even have the glory of the release of the kankara boys to Miyetti Allah. Not long ago, when a global terrorists index was issued by international experts on terrorism and the threats terrorists pose to World’s peace, the Nigerian version of armed Fulani herdsmen backed actively by a certain dangerous platform called Miyetti Allah cattle owners Association, was rated as the fourth most deadliest killer terror organisation in the whole wide World. Sadly, as the international community of concerned experts are cracking their brains on how to get the relevant global leaders to act to stave off the grave consequences of not doing anything to stop all forms of terror attacks which directly threatens to wipe off humanity from the face of the earth, in Nigeria, however, there is an awkward marriage of convenience and conspiracy of silence amongst the Presidency. When the group killed 78 people in Benue on January 1,2018 8,Governor Samuel Otorm was summoned to the villa and told by the President to go and learn how to live in peace with his neighbours.The group had not been held accountable for all the murders it has been accused of or claimed responsibility for. It is now the face of the Nigerian government negotiation with other terrorists. The Kankara episode has exposed it all and nothing is hidden again except for those who have made stupidity a call. …. Addressing The Boko Haram challenge In Nigeria Kate Meagher Addressing the Boko Haram insurgency in northern Nigeria requires policymakers to look beyond Western security templates of Islamic terrorism to grasp the underlying causes of what is primarily a Nigerian conflict. This policy brief examines the four explanatory factors behind the insurgency: economic marginalisation, governance failures, extremist operations and security failures. Economic causes are traced to poverty, unemployment and extreme inequality between northern and southern Nigeria, while governance failures relate to national religious polarisation, political brinksmanship among religious elites, and rampant corruption in the face of mass poverty. The focus on extremist operations considers the shifting objectives and recruitment strategies of Boko Haram, which tend to confound clear policy analysis, while an assessment of security failures notes their role in driving rather than reining in radicalisation. Recommendations for international policy interventions focus on four areas of constructive engagement. These include diplomatic pressure on the Nigerian government to demonstrate adequate political will to address the insurgency, supporting human rights training and providing appropriate equipment for the military, providing more socially differentiated support for the generation of dignified livelihoods appropriate to both the educated and uneducated unemployed, and more concerted support for the compensation of Boko Haram’s victims. Since 2009, Nigeria has been in the grip of a violent Islamic insurgency by the extremist sect widely known as Boko Haram. More than 12,000 people have been killed in Boko Haram attacks across northern Nigeria and hundreds of thousands displaced (Mustapha, forthcoming). Military action and civil resistance have driven the group back into the three northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, where a state of emergency has been in force since November 2013. However, Nigerian security forces have been unable to restore order, as evidenced by their failure to rescue over 200 schoolgirls kidnapped in April, 2014, the ongoing capture and destruction of towns in Borno and Adamawa states, and continued bombings in recent months in major cities across Nigeria, including the capital, Abuja, and the southern city of Lagos. Ending this violent insurgency requires a clear-headed assessment of its causes and shifting character, unburdened by the discourses of the so-called war on terror or contending political agendas in the run-up to the 2015 Nigerian elections. From an international policy perspective, constructive intervention in what remains a shadowy and rapidly changing situation requires an appreciation of Boko Haram as primarily a Nigerian problem rooted in poverty and poor governance rather than global Islamic terrorism. Poverty levels in the north east and north-west are 40% higher than those in the south-west of the country, and unemployment is three times as high. Lack of education is part of the problem – barely one in five adults in the Muslim north are literate, compared to 80% in southern Nigeria – but even educated northern youth struggle to find work in the collapsing northern economy. Even in the informal economy there is growing competition over jobs. Unemployed graduates are beginning to crowd out the traditional occupants of informal activities. In the once-vibrant northern cities of Kano and Kaduna young men with post secondary qualifications can be found working as tailors, load carriers and hawkers, while the poor and uneducated struggle to find even lowly informal work (Meagher, 2014). This has unleashed significant resentment against the failure of Western education to deliver on the promise of dignified work as well as anger over the incursion of Western graduates into the little informal work available for the poor. This dual frustration is reflected in the presence of both Western educated actors in Boko Haram’s membership and those with no education (ICG, 2014). At the bottom of northern Nigerian society, poverty, unemployment, and rapid rural-urban migration are unravelling communal support mechanisms and eroding traditional Koranic education systems (Hoechner, forthcoming). Membership of youth gangs has flourished, while millions of itinerant Koranic students are subjected to increasing deprivation and neglect, unleashing a growing problem of feral youth across northern Nigerian cities. Governance Failures The rise of Islamic terrorism is not simply a result of poverty and inequality, but of how these issues have been shaped by religious and political factors. Other Muslim West African societies, such as those of Senegal and Niger, have higher levels of poverty and unemployment than Nigeria and a larger share of Muslims in their populations yet remain peaceful. More extreme inequality in Nigeria is part of the problem: while Senegal and Niger have an inequality profile similar to Eastern Europe, Nigeria’s approximates that of Latin America. Escalating inequality is accompanied by severe religious polarisation at the NOREF Policy Brief – November 2014 national level. A fairly equal proportion of Muslims and Christians in Nigerian society has fostered a competitive political brinksmanship between Christian and Muslim elites in struggles over control of the country’s oil wealth, fostering rising Christian Muslim violence since the 1980s. Religious polarisation between Christians and Muslims has exacerbated an internal dynamic of religious fragmentation and radicalisation in northern Nigerian Islam, manifested in growing religious intolerance, extremist views and discourses of violence among radical Muslim preachers. Poor governance and rampant corruption have pushed these social and religious tensions to the breaking point. Resource-curse politics and the opulent behaviour of northern elites amid mass poverty have fostered a deep sense of popular grievance. Boko Haram initially emerged as a protest against the poor governance and corruption of northern leaders, which the movement sought to remedy through demands for an Islamic state and strict adherence to sharia law. The charismatic founder of the movement, Mohammed Yusuf, was openly critical of northern leaders, but Boko Haram’s move to terrorism only started after his death in police custody in 2009. Despite some sympathy among northern Nigerian Muslims with its critique of political misrule, there is little support for Boko Haram’s violent tactics. A 2014 survey by the Pew Foundation showed that 80% of Nigerian Muslims have an unfavourable view of the movement (Pew Research Global Attitudes Project, 2014). Extremist Operations While poverty and corruption have created a fertile recruiting ground for Boko Haram, the constant mutation and evolution of the sect has frustrated any clear assessment of its objectives and membership. The shift to violent extremism since 2010 has been accompanied by changes in both its objectives and recruitment tactics, as well as by a fragmentation of the group itself. Initially, Yusuf attracted followers through his fiery rejection of the corrupt secular state while building a community based on sharia principles and the provision of basic needs. Boko Haram offered one meal a day, arranged low-cost marriages, and provided loans for petty commercial activities, thus offering basic social dignity to the poor and unemployed. Following alleged links with Borno State politicians in the run-up to the 2003 elections, relations turned sour when the elected governor failed to follow up on promises to implement full sharia law, leading to increasingly vitriolic and bloody clashes with the state (ICG, 2014). The shift to terrorism followed the killing of Yusuf in police custody and the deaths of 700 of his followers in 2009 in a clash with police. Boko Haram returned as a more aggressively terrorist organisation in 2010 under the leadership of Abubakar Shekau. More violent attacks on churches, drinking places, Muslim critics, and schools were accompanied by new tactics such as suicide bombing and kidnapping, suggesting imitation of and limited contact with global Islamic terrorists, but not necessarily incorporation into global terrorist networks. The Boko Haram splinter group Ansaru rejected terror tactics against fellow Muslims and places of worship, targeting its attacks on security services and Western interests (Mustapha, forthcoming). Shifting recruitment tactics have also changed the composition of Boko Haram’s membership. Under Shekau’s leadership initial motives of religious radicalism have been diluted by an increasing use of monetary inducements, family pressures (especially for wives of members), fear of reprisals, conscription and kidnapping (Sani & Erhardt, 2014). The failure to rein in Boko Haram’s activities in the three northeastern states and the increasing devastation of the wider northern Nigerian economy are facilitating an entrenchment of the group in an environment of grievance, poverty, insecurity and desperation. The “bad neighbourhood” effect of Boko Haram’s sphere of operations, which borders areas containing marauding militias in Chad and the Central African Republic, exacerbates the risks of the group’s entrenchment and mutation into a violent regional militia….  SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION