Some Local Government Chairmen in Lagos State have congratulated Christians as they celebrate Christmas and urged residents to strictly adhere to COVID-19 protocols. Alhaji Ganiyu Egunjobi, the Executive Chairman Agege Local Government in his Christmas message, urged residents to imbibe Christ’s love, keep safe and follow the COVID-19 protocols. “Christmas is a special time of the year, it is the season of hope anchored on God’s enduring gift of love. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! “As we celebrate this season, I call on you to reflect on the power of God’s Christmas gift to us. “And in doing so, I enjoin you to project that gift in our relationships with our families, neighbours and friends. I Resisted pressure From APC To Leave PDP – Wike Christmas: Udom Emmanuel Preaches Love, Warns Against Tribalism “I urge all residents and stakeholders of Agege community to take cognisance of the effects of the marauding COVID-19 second wave ravaging the world. “I advise everyone to adhere strictly to the prevention protocols to ensure that Agege Local Government area is safe,” he said. Mr Emmanuel Bamgboye, the Executive Chairman, Mushin Local Government, in his message, rejoiced with Christians and the people of the council on the celebration. “Thank you for your support and perseverance in combating all the challenges experienced in year 2020 such as corona virus (COVID-19),EndSARS protests, looting of shops and vandalism of properties. “We thank God for sparing our lives to witness this year’s Christmas season. “Presently, we are now experiencing the second wave of COVID-19 and we will advise residents to adhere strictly to the guidelines provided by the State Government and NCDC to curb the spread of the virus. “As we celebrate Christmas, let us be our brother’s keeper because safety begins with each one of us,” he said. The Executive Chairman of Itire-Ikate Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Dr Ahmed Apatira, rejoiced with residents for witnessing another Christmas Day. He urged them to use the festive period to beseech Almighty God to heal the land of COVID-19 pandemic and all other diseases. The council boss also appealed to the people to continue to give their cooperation and utmost support to the government at all levels. “I urge you all to observe all government guidelines as regards the novel coronavirus pandemic and sincerely see it as a collective responsibility to halt the spread of this deadly disease. “It is not out of place to term this year as a ‘Thanksgiving’ one due to all the unusual experiences and huge losses mankind encountered. “May Almighty God grant us unlimited favour and immeasurable grace on this occasion, forever and in all our endeavours as well,” he said. Mr Yusuf Sakiru, the Executive Chairman, Ayobo Ipaja LCDA in his Christmas message to the residents, congratulated Christians and urged them to follow the guidelines of COVID-19 to curb the spread within the community. “I implore residents to reflect on the COVID-19 challenges and be modest in celebrating the Christmas in order not to rubbish the gains made during the past lockdown. He appealed to all residents to be conscious and adhere strictly to both the federal and state health guidelines on COVID-19. “I urge residents to remain vigilant and safety conscious, noting that carnivals, social gathering and road blockage for merriments and parties are prohibited,” Sakiru said. Princess Olabisi Adebajo, the Executive Chairman, Mosan-Okunola LCDA, in her goodwill and Christmas message, urged Christians to exhibit the traits of love, faithfulness, sacrifice and I indness which Jesus Christ preached. Adebajo appealed to the people of the area, especially the Christian faithful, to adhere to the new  COVID-19 protocols to help curtail the second wave of the pandemic. Princess Samiat Bada, the Executive Chairman, Ikosi Isheri LCDA, encouraged all residents in the community to exhibit love the spirit of caring for one another. Bada urged them to be cheerful givers as commanded in the holy book as they celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. She enjoined all to keep all COVID-19 precautions as they bask in the euphoria of the season. “I pray that we would all see the year 2021 alive in good health and sound mind,” she said. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION