TITILOPE JOSEPH asks Lawyers how best the government can tackle insecurity and guide against the repeat of what happened to the 344 Kankara boys and the Chibok girls who were abducted while striving to acquire knowledge in school and reports. The level of insecurity in Nigeria has not only become alarming in recent times but the involvement of innocent school children has added to the act of wickedness by the insurgent group, a situation which needs urgent attention if truly the country does not want a repeat of what happened to the remaining Chibok girls whom may never be rescued and the recent abduction of 344 Boys from Kankara in Kastina State. Recently, parents of over three hundred pupils were thrown into a state of trauma following the abduction of their boys at a school in Kankara, Kastina State on December 11, 2020 when Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari visited his country home in Daura, a northern state in the country, for a holiday. On that fateful night, hundreds of gunmen riding on motorbikes were reported to have stormed a boarding school in Kankara, also in Katsina state and schoolboys were said to be jumping over a fence, running for their lives when they heard gunshots. But over 300 were not too lucky to escape as they were rounded up and herded into the surrounding forest. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! It was not immediately clear who the culprits were. Nigeria’s government says that the children were taken by bandits who have demanded a ransom for their release. But Boko Haram, a jihadist group, said it was behind the kidnapping. Although. The Buhari led administration has at different times claimed that Boko Haram had been defeated but the rising insecurity in the north-eastern parts of the country, and rampant attacks on the population by Boko haram seems to have proved otherwise. Accelerating Dispensation Of Cases: The Way Forward NBBF President Laments 3-Year Absence Of Men’s Premier League The Presidency in its reactions to the abduction of the school boys maintained that 10 of the abducted students are still in the custody of their kidnappers, a submission that was later discovered to be false. Garba Shehu, senior media and publicity aide to President Muhammadu Buhari, in a tweet on Monday, December 14, amid national outrage over the abduction the students on Friday, further triggered anger among Nigerians over the stand of government regarding the abduction of the over 300 students. However, Lawyers air their views on the current security challenges in the country with possible solutions to end the unpleasant situation. Former Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association, Epe branch, Mr. Sunday Abimbola said, “An idle hand is Satan’s workshop. When I was young I grew up going to the farm with my father. We eat lunch in the farm. After school we go to the farm and still come back for carpentry apprentice. No employment, the best employer of Labour then was agriculture, Buhari has given the Fulani the right to enter any farm and eat the crops, it happened to me too. Let Buhari tame the ruthless Fulani herders and promote mechanized agriculture and you will see that security problems will be a thing of the past. Why should we have men of the same ethnic group put in charge of all security apparatus in the country? President Buhari is tribalistic and this has not help the country. We have not had it so bad,” he said. Mr. Adekunle Akinpelu in his opinion said, “The security issue again has raise some fundamental concerns about the value of human life, the priority and importance of gender in Nigeria generally and Northern Nigeria in particular. The principal constitutional duty of the government is the protection of lives and properties. Once a government fails to do this, then it will certainly lose its legitimacy. The present Nigerian government both at the states and federal governments have consistently shown incapacity to deal with the issue of security in the Country. The problem though cannot be separated from the present awkward structure of the Country. This not however an excuse for the ineptness of the individual’s personal manning positions of authority in Nigeria. That is indeed another big problem, particularly with the choice of mediocrity and nepotism over competence in determining persons to occupy political positions in the Country, which has become the hallmark of the present administration at the federal level. It also plays out in different shades and colour even in the states. On security and the nation’s political structure, the truth is that it absurd and very unreasonable to centralize security in a country as big and diverse as Nigerian. Apart from tribal sentiment which has bedeviled the recruitment and operations in matters of security and reduced the consideration to trial sentiments, there is a dare need to decentralize security matters constitutionally, particularly Police or Policing the Country. Until each state or better still, each region or geo- political unitfor effective funding have its own police department, there will never be effective monitoring and curbing of crime and criminality in Nigeria. The present federal Government seems to be adverse to any suggestion for decentralization of police and policing for reason known to them, but bad for the Country. However, the present reality is that states have already started forming and arming militias in the name of securing their states. This can only spell more doom for the Country. So, the agitation should be controlled and structured to give it legality as regional police controlled by each of the six geo- political units in Nigeria. They have common interest, they know their people and their terrain. So they will surely keep the security because they are directly affected. On the federal government quick response to the release of the Kankara boys compared to the reaction in the case of the Chibok girls, I believe the Northern tribal disposition on the girl child weighed heavily in the consideration and reaction. Though I may be wrong but it is my opinion. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION