It is reassuring that following the unfortunate kidnapping of 344 students of the Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State, by gunmen suspected to be Boko Haram terrorists, which raised instant, widespread local and international outcry, formidable machinery was put in motion to ensure their swift, successful release to the relief of their parents and the nation. There were conflicting claims about the exact strategy that was deployed to secure the release of the pupils. While some officials of the Katsina State Government affirmed that negotiations were engaged upon to secure the freedom of the kids, the military outlined the coordinated operations they claimed to have organized to locate the spot in the thick Zamfara forests where the pupils were held and how they carefully undertook their rescue without exposing any of them to harm. No matter what actually happened, what is of significance to most Nigerians is that some effort was indeed deployed, and with it, the boys were brought home to their parents. Shortly after the dizzying Kankara episode, another disheartening report dropped that 80 pupils of an Islamic school (Islamiyya) in the same Katsina State have been abducted by gunmen on Saturday, December 19. But a day after, their release was also quickly secured, before Nigerians and their global sympathizers were able to fully digest the yet another ugly and disheartening news of abduction of school pupils in the same state. EXPOSED - HOW LAGOS DOCTOR DISCOVERED MAJOR REASONS WHY MOST WIVES NOW HEAVILY CHEATS ON THEIR HUSBANDS AND THE PERMANENT SECRET TO SEXUALLY SATISFYING THEIR WIVES. DON'T BE A VICTIM! As Nigerians savoured their relief and joy at the successful release of these two sets pupils, the question on a number of lips was: what about Miss Leah Sharibu who has been in the captivity of Boko Haram terrorists since February 19, 2018? Why has this kind of effort not been made to secure her release from the den of the terrorists where she must been subjected to very unimaginable and harrowing ordeals? Whether it is a carefully coordinated rescue mission or negotiation with terrorists (both of which the government has proved itself capable of), why has none of these strategies been implemented to secure Leah’s release and bring joy to her parents and concerned Nigerians and remove the international shame and diminishment the country has earned from that egregious occurrence. Leah Sharibu was one of the 110 students of the Government Girls’ Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, abducted the Boko Haram terrorists. She has been in their captivity since over two years now. She was only fourteen then. The next month after their abduction, the students were released, after, according to reports, intensive negotiations between the terrorists and the government. Still On Nigeria’s Population Isa Pantami’s Badly Timed Digital War But as the students were brought home into the warm embrace of their jubilant and appreciative parents and other Nigerians, Leah Sharibu was not found among her classmates. Her parents who had come like the other parents to celebrate and hug their daughter were heartbroken when they did not see her among her happy and celebrating mates. According to Leah’s classmates, the terrorists had refused to release her because she had refused to renounce her Christian faith and embrace Islam as she was ordered to. And so she was made to undergo the traumatizing ordeal of watching her happy classmates being taken away to safety and sweet freedom while she was held back by her abductors in their hideous enclave. Given the reputation of these terrorists, it is scary to imagine the physical and mental tortures and violations they must have subjected to. Mrs. Rebecca Sharibu, Leah’s mother, tearfully told reporters later: “My heart was broken when I searched through the released girls and could not set my eyes on my dear daughter, Leah”. Leah’s equally heartbroken father, Nathaniel Sharibu, called on the government to do everything within its powers to ensure that his daughter was also brought back. He said: “Nigeria must do all within its powers to bring back my daughter the same way they did to others.” The nagging question is: if the Nigerian government can arrange the kind of rescue mission witnessed by the citizenry in respect of the Katsina pupils, why can’t such an effort be also deployed to bring Leah Sharibu home? Her case is even exceptional because she was held back because of her firm refusal to renounce her Christian faith. President Muhammadu Buhari should have put his foot to the ground by now, as he has variously promised, and ensure that he secures the release of Leah Sharibu. Being a Muslim himself, he should have taken an extra mile to rescue Leah in order to underline the fact that the forced conversion the terrorists tried to subject the tender girl to is unacceptable in a secular state like Nigeria. Indeed, rescuing Leah would have aborted the insinuations across the polity that government appears to be selective about its rescue missions. President Buhari can smother these damaging suggestions by activating similar machinery as the one that was used to secure freedom for the Katsina pupils to bring Leah Sharibu home. She is also the daughter of parents who have remained heart-broken since their daughter was taken away. They too deserve to hug their own daughter and heal from the searing pain inflicted on them by the brutal abduction of their daughter. Also, about 100 students from a girls’ school in Chibok, Borno State, who were also kidnapped over six years ago are still with the terrorists. Government should also reenact the ‘Katsina Magic’ in their case and bring them home. It is a sacred duty. SHOCKING! DOCTORS ARE MESMERIZED BY THIS NATURAL PREMATURE EJACULATION AND SMALL SIZE SOLUTION GUARANTEED TO BULLDOZE YOUR WOMAN INTO SEXUAL SUBMISSION