MAKURDI – The strange disease that claimed the lives of four persons in the border town of Oye-Obi, Obi Local Government Area of Benue State, has yet claimed another life. This is even as the disease might have affected hundreds of persons in the area. Chairman of the council area, Alicia Eru, disclosed this while speaking to newsmen in Makurdi on Saturday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While she called on governments at all levels to synergise towards checking the spread of the disease, she noted that most of the persons down with the ailment were from Oju LGA of the state. The council chairman also said some of the persons that were severely affected by the disease have been moved to the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH) for treatment. Eru stated that though the disease was yet to be diagnosed, some of the persons that were down with the symptoms tested positive to Hepatitis B. Daily Independent also reliably gathered that BSUTH, where some of the patients were referred to, might be overwhelmed by the human traffic to the hospital. We further gathered that on the directive of the state governor, Samuel Ortom, the state Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Sunday Ongbabo, was in Oju and Obi council areas on Thursday to ascertain the spread and effect of the outbreak of the disease It was also learnt that the commissioner who had earlier made a stopover at the General Hospital, Oju, had directed that those affected be moved to BSUTH. However, competent sources at BSUTH told our correspondent that the case of suspected poisoning was highly possible, as persons under such conditions were likely to test positive to Hepatitis B, which also brings about inflammation of the liver. He also observed that most of the persons affected with the ailment may end up being moved to Eruwa, Edo State for treatment, due to lack of bed space to handle the cases. The source stressed that BSUTH lacks the capacity to handle the reported cases because of the number of persons down with the disease, as it would not be able to house the patients.