LAGOS – With the review and reconstituting the Reconciliation committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state has once again, gained the upper hand in the supremacy battle between him and his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is the party’s national chairman. The party’s National Working Committee (NWC) headed by Oshiomhole had in December 2019 named Senate President, Ahmad Lawan as head of the reconciliation committee. Others on the list according to a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu are the first (Interim) APC National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, who would serve as Vice Chairman; Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase; Sen. Umaru Tanko Al-Makura and Sen. Kashim Shettima. Others are Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor; Alhaji Nasiru Aliko Koki; Senator Khairat Gwadabe-Abdulrazak; Sen. Binta Garba and Sen. John Enoh, who would serve as Secretary. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the NWC, the committee is empowered to address grievances of party members and resolve existing conflicts, all with a view to fostering unity and oneness within the party. Shortly after the announcement, Obaseki rejected the committee and asked that it should be reconstituted . He argued that it was agreed at the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party that it was President Buhari that would set up the committee and not Oshiomhole. He also accused the Senate president and the deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase, of playing a prominent role in the crisis rocking the party in the state based on the resolution by the National Assembly to take over the functions of the Edo State of Assembly. He also argued it was improper for Oshiomhole, who is party to the crisis in the local chapter of the APC in Edo State to constitute a committee to reconcile aggrieved members. In a statement, Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Hon. Paul Ohonbamu and Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said some of the members of the committee such as Senator Ahmed Lawan and the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ahmed Wase, meddled in the altercation between Edo State Government and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and could not now be adjudicators on the matter. According to him, “We believe the committee does not only fall-short of the most basic of integrity tests, but is also a disservice to genuine efforts to bring a lasting solution to the crisis rocking different chapters of the APC across the country. “To the specifics, Senator Lawan and Ahmed Wase in the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, presided over the plenary sessions where the motions to take over the Edo State House of Assembly were deliberated. They are also parties in the court case, in which the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt ruled that the National Assembly cannot take over the functions of the Edo State Assembly.” He continued, “The NWC, which constituted the reconciliatory committee, is presided over by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is a key actor in the crisis in Edo State. With this move, it amounts to him also being the judge in his own case. The state government noted that governors of APC-controlled states were not consulted in the composition of the committee, which was an indication that the national chairman still acts like an ‘emperor,’ a trait that is exacerbating the crisis in the party. However, after a long hiatus, President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday agreed with the objections raised by Obaseki by reconstituting the reconciliation committee. Not only did he remove Lawan as the chairman of the committee, he also included state governors, who are major stakeholders in the party as members of the committee. These are the two objections raised by Obaseki in rejecting the Lawan-led committee. Aside Akande, Other members of the panel which was announced by Lanre Issa- Onuli are Governors Gboyega Oyetola (Osun) and Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger); Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi; House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase and former Nasarawa State Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura. They include: former Borno State governor Kashim Shettima; Minister of State for the Environment Mrs Sharon Ikeazor; Alhaji Nasiru Aliko Koki; senators Khairat Gwadabe-Abdulrazak and Binta Garba. According to Issa Onilu, “The committee is empowered to address grievances of party members across the country and resolve existing conflicts, all with a view to fostering oneness, strengthen the party for better governance and ensure unity of purpose within the party.” Expressing gratitude to the President and applauding the reconstitution of the committee, Governor Obaseki expressed confidence in the ability of the Akande-led panel to deliver on its mandate to restore peace and unity in the party. “Governor Obaseki applauded the reconstitution of the committee and expressed confidence that the committee would deliver on its mandate to restore peace and unity in the party” a statement released and signed by Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie said. It added that the state government is “grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari for putting together a committee of persons with proven integrity and the forthrightness needed to deliver on this very sensitive national assignment.” The statement reads, “With the person of the renowned statesman and leader of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande, heading this committee, and other very worthy leaders of our party as members, we have no doubt that justice will not only be done but seen to be done in the execution of the mandate of this committee. “We hereby restate our full commitment to peace in the APC both in our state and across the country. “Despite the many challenges, APC has remained strong in Edo State and in Nigeria, but we are certain that at the end of this exercise, the party will become even stronger and continue to lead our great country with its progressive ideals for many years to come.” Speaking in a chat with our correspondent, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) said he is confident that Akande will use his wealth of experience in restoring peace to the party at all levels, especially in Edo and Ondo states so that the APC will not go into the elections in the two states as a divided entity. This is the second time the Presidency will side with Obaseki over matters relating to the supremacy battle with him and Oshiomhole. The first occasion was in December last year when had written the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu requesting police protection at a rally organised to receive Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and other decampees from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) into the APC . In a document that went viral, the IGP wrote to Oshiomhole assuring him of adequate police protection at the rally. However, following the violence that rocked the state a day to the planned rally in which over 15 persons were injured and the protest by Obaseki that as the Chief Security Officer of Edo state, he is not aware of any rally holding in the state, the IGP issued another letter announcing the suspension of the rally. In a letter addressed to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu, signed by the Principal Staff Officer to the IGP, ACP Idowu Owohunwa, the Police said “in cognizance of the security consequences of the proposed Mega Rally, I am to confirm that the Inspector General of Police has directed the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command to emplace appropriate security framework that is directed at suspending the rally until further notice”.