Dr. Geoffrey Ibeabuchi, a Psychological Therapist who lives in the United States of America (USA), but home for a holiday, said that a deeper meaning should be given to the Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election. He linked the judgement to 2023 Presidential election in this interview with CHRISTIAN NWOKOCHA. Excerpts: As a psychological therapist, how would you describe the mood of Imo people and Nigerians generally particularly over the Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election? I wasn’t surprised and I discovered that not everybody is suffering from hypertension over it. But, I see a complete set of distressed people. People who have no hope and frustrated. Obviously, people in Nigeria hope for a change in their lives if possible, but their aspirations are looking more of a day dream. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Do you mean stressful and frustrated people on political or economic direction? Both are not independent of each other. Economic and politics go hand in hand. I think people are stressed up because of the economy which couldn’t have been different from the kind of political structure we have here in Nigeria.  So, one can say without fear of contradiction that people are stressful because of the political structure as well as economic conditions and environment resulted from the bad political structure. More often than not, we have always destroyed foundations laid by previous administrators, for the new governor in Imo State should be able to meet the people’s demand. He should start from where the former governor stopped to move Imo State forward. We keep wasting the nation’s economy destroying what the previous administrators built before they left office. Most politicians in Nigeria don’t think about their children just as they don’t think about tomorrow. A politician is not a business man who thinks about his personal profit, but thinks about the people and their welfare. So, it is very disappointing that Nigerian politicians don’t represent the people, but themselves. I was not surprised of the kind of judgment that was delivered by the Supreme Court of Nigeria and the country went into flames. If you deliver a judgment and noticed widespread protests just as it is raging now, then you must watch it because revolution starts from areas you least expected. The judicial system and judges were not set to interpret the laws of the people, but to interpret the law of personality. In Nigeria, anybody can pick up a phone and tell you what he wants and it is done, it does not matter if what he wants the judge to do was wrong or right. If they had interpreted the people’s law, they would have considered if the man was voted by the people or not. They would have considered the laws establishing INEC and its powers, electoral laws and other relevant institutions before the judgment. Some analysts have linked the Supreme Court judgment to 2023 Presidential election. What’s your own view? I think this is a clever manipulation of political ideology. They are manipulating the people to give them the kind of thinking that Igbo man cannot be President. That was a wrong signal. But the people wish it comes and that means we need to come home and restructure, think about our collective belief, political, economic strength and social life. If we can thrive as a people with strong economic base and think less about the centre, we would be begged to come and lead this country Nigeria. I hope that our people should learn from the Supreme Court judgment. Apart from subverting the truth at the apex court, a deeper interpretation of what happened can be linked to what you said about 2023. Nationwide, people were confident that the former governor Emeka Ihedioha has clout and the capacity to coordinate the South East for 2023 and put up a fight against any other political interest or personality not working for the Igbo interest. This may have accounted for why former presidents and heads of state in Nigeria visit him and respect his political and public conduct. At least, we have in him a man from the South East who can be respected and trusted by his political contemporaries in the Northern Nigeria, the South West and the South South. Strongly speaking I hope an Igbo man becomes the president of this country. If it does, Nigeria will be a better place to live. Nigerians in Diaspora would like to come back and help rebuild Nigeria. An average Igbo man believes in technological development, commerce and balanced thoughts. So, it is in the interest of Nigeria if an Igbo man becomes a President. Before that can be done, they have more work to do and I tell you if we do, they will beg and come shopping for a presidential material. We as Igbo people need to retool and more proactive. What would you consider as a blueprint for Igbo man having tried war, lamentations, agitations, protests and peace which seem not to be working for them? No! They are all working. How would you know these agitations are working? You can see that irrespective of whatever anybody thinks about Igbo man, the truth remains that the people of the South East cannot be taken for granted. The people are fully prepared to resist any form of imposition, it does not matter if they are succeeding or not. You have people who can speak out in the South East and cannot also be cowed down. So, the lamentations, agitations and protests are really working out and one day, it will yield result. But, I think we need to employ economic pressure. Some people said that this country appears to have relied on Igbo man to make headway economically and this may not be far from the truth. Most successful businesses and structures you see in Lagos, Abuja and other cities in Nigeria are either owned or managed by an Igbo man. They are providing job opportunities to other people outside Igbo land. If that ideology is changed as a measure to seek relevance from the other parts of the country, where most of the things they want, will come from this part of the world, that would amount to economic pressure which has never been in use since after Nigeria’s political creation. It can provide employment opportunities for our people, deliberate manpower development. We need to do more for the Igbo youths because they have been pushed to the wall and that is why they mostly react negatively on issues about Nigeria. If we pay attention to a new economic restructure peculiar to the people of the South East and make quality investments to address the needs of our people. We have to show love to the old and provide for our people particularly the youths, if this happens in every community in Igbo land, the era of negative reactions will reduce, social vices will disappear and good education on how to live a moderate life would be embraced automatically by the affected persons.