Akure – Draft Bill of Ondo State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps codenamed: “Operation Amotekun,” has been approved by the State Executive Council on Wednesday during its sitting. The Bill is expected to be earnestly transmitted to the state House of Assembly for legislative scrutiny and thereafter passed into Law. In the Bill, traditional rulers are given vital and complementary roles to play in the new security arrangement. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Disclosing this on Wednesday in Akure, the state capital, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, in a statement said that “In an exhaustive session of deliberations, council took time to peruse every detail contained in the Bill that was presented by the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Kola Olawoye (SAN), and now ready to be transmitted to the state House of Assembly for passage. “The Draft Bill has six Parts and 44 sections. It is also gratifying to disclose that every apprehension or fears expressed has been adequately looked into. This is even as traditional rulers will now have roles to play in the operations of the security outfit pursuant to its passage into Law by the state Assembly.” The statement also expressed the determination of the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration to arrest security breakdown in the state by offering to complement efforts of the national security agencies. “Government finds it pertinent to reiterate that this laudable initiative is aimed at complementing the efforts of the nation’s security agencies. It is also necessary to encourage the good people of Ondo State to take maximum advantage of this opportunity,” the statement said. The Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelogun, told newsmen that the House would give the Bill critical scrutiny due to the sensitivity and importance of the Bill to the people. He assured that it would go through the normal procedure to the stage of passing it into law despite the fact that the lawmakers are on recess.