Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, a former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State recently defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO, he explained his defection to the party, even as he believes that the current problem in Edo APC will expire after nomination of candidates for this year’s election. Excerpts: Is it true that you are now supporting another governorship candidate after you have moved all your followers from the PDP to APC with the hope of getting the governorship candidate of the APC? When we were coming from the PDP to the APC, we deliberated extensively on where we were going and we also look at the options available. Of course, there are some people who would want Pastor Ize- Iyamu to be governor. Many of them are realistic enough to understand that is not every time that your wishes come true. So, we have a lot of options. We also knew that we were coming to a place where there was a sitting governor and there were also people who had indicated interest for the office. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network So, gunning for office was an option. But, I will also support whoever the party puts there. An option and general consensus was that we should leave where we were and come to the APC. If God does it and we become the governorship candidate, to the glory of God. On the other hand, the general consensus is that if there is somebody that is preferred, we will also support the person. So, what you were quoting me as saying is simply in consonant with what had been agreed on, that at the end of the day, whoever emerges, let us support the person. After all, we are in the same party. To be honest, if your real desire is for good governance, it doesn’t have to be you. So, the fact that I am offering myself for service does not mean that I am the only person that can do that job. It does not even mean that I am the most qualified, somebody has to do it and it is also very wrong to say that if you are not the person, automatically you must take a walk. I want to assure you that is not the way our minds are working. We said we were coming to add value and that is the extent we think we should do that. We will do everything with peace and people have started talking to each other quietly, maybe unknown to the public, but quietly there is a lot of talk, a lot of consultation going on, which we are encouraging across the divide. Eventually, when the primary is done or before then, somebody will emerge and if that person emerges, be rest assured that all of us, including myself, will close rank. If I am the one, of course, my prayer will be that everybody should close rank with me and if it is somebody else too, I should not be a spoiler. So, be rest assured that we are determined to ensure that we present a united front. Those of us who address a press conference few days ago, we made it clear that for us, it is not a do-or-die thing. It is just our own desire to serve and make our own state better. Anybody that gets it, all of us will be addressing quality support. Have you made any attempt to broker peace between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole? I don’t think the problem in APC is strictly between Oshiomhole and Obaseki, even though people are trying to create that impression. The National Chairman is not aspiring to govern Edo State again. Every time I listen to the governor and those around him, the major issue is that he must have second term. If you consider that the National Chairman is not aspiring to serve, then it means there is really no conflict. Perhaps the issue is that the National Chairman should support them, but National Chairman does not even support anybody. He is national chairman. All those contesting are his party men and women. I think his support will only come in when a candidate emerges. But, what is important is to reach out across the divide and talk to the party leaders across the different Local Government Areas that there is the need to come together and put the masses first. The governor will leave, National Chairman’s tenure will end. But, the party will remain. So, we will not destroy the party because somebody is insisting on second term. That issue is with the National Chairman. Some of your supporters say that governorship is not the first consideration why you joined APC. Why did you join the party? I don’t know who told you that, but being governor of your state cannot be the least. I think it is an honour to be given the opportunity to serve your state as a governor. I don’t think that I have reached that level where I will say being governor of my state is the least. I have not reached that stage. If I have been President or something before and you are now telling me to be governor, I can now say that is the least. But, for somebody who has never held such position, it cannot be the least. What I think the person might be saying is that, that is not the only reason. Quite honestly, in leaving PDP, the first consideration is: what do we want to achieve in politics? For many of us, the answer is hope. We want to use politics to access government for the betterment of our people. Second question: Can you achieve it through this present platform as they are operating? For many of our people, the answer was no, it cannot be achieved. So, we should go to the APC and the answer unanimously was ‘yes’. In APC, what do we want to achieve? First, let us go there and add value. Let us be seen as important players in the system. Let them know that we have followers. We can increase the party, let them know that we have capacity, let them know that we have goodwill, we have idea, we have resources, bring it into the party. What can we vie for, of course, if the party allows us to vie, we can vie for anything. But, understand that every office has tenure. So, you cannot go there now thinking that because you are the chairman of a Local Government in PDP, automatically you must take chairman. If you even want to aspire for that position, you must wait for the tenure to end in the same way. As a governor, he has a right to run for a second term. Whether he will get it or not depends on the same party and their members. So, yes if you want to aspire, you can try. But, have it at the back of your mind that your getting a ticket cannot be automatic. If the incumbent cannot say his nomination is automatic, it will be fool hardy for you coming there to think that it must be automatic. So, governorship is an option. But, supporting whoever emerges and by that support, ensuring that some of your people are able to get into government, is also an option. So, there were many options and I can tell you that we did not come to APC with the mind that it is governorship or nothing else. We came with an open mind, but we just believe that if we are able to bring value to the party, we will also endear ourselves to the leaderships and the members. Who knows, when the opportunity comes, we will also be there to be considered. The opportunity is inexhaustible if tomorrow I want to run for President, I am sure they will not stop me. So, it depends on how you are able to endear yourself to the party leadership and to the party members. 