The insistence of the Federal Government that all surrounding land borders should remain closed to avoid banned items which includes foreign rice from being smuggled into the Nigerian market has really paid off as most consumers have no option, but to patronise the local rice. However, despite the ban, foreign rice is still found in almost all our markets, but at a very high cost and consumers who have penchant for foreign items go after the commodity regardless of the price. But that of the local rice does not differ either, as it is also being sold at exorbitant prices, beyond the reach of many especially the common folks, despite being produced in the country. With this, consumption pattern of the staple food, irrespective of the brand, seemed to have dropped sharply, thereby leading to poor sales. The situation saw many of the traders lamenting especially those who had invested huge amount of money expecting quick returns. Prior to the ban of foreign rice, prices of local rice are quite cheaper, affordable but still lacked patronage because of the poor quality. The situation appeared not to be so again as quality of some of the brands having tremendously improved, now competing with international standard which appeared to be responsible for the increase, taking into cognisance the cost of production. Findings from a market survey across some states by the Business and Market Intelligence Unit of SUNDAY INDEPENDENT revealed that prices of local rice although still on the high side, fell by over 5 and 10 percent in some markets from December 2019 to February 13, 2020. Reasons predominantly mentioned for the steady rise in the prices of local rice were scarcity, unavailability and closure of borders. During the week, checks at the Igbudu and Ogbeogologo markets, Asaba, Delta State, revealed that prices of local rice were at an upward trend, with a bag currently ranging from N18,500 to N19,000 as against N21,000 sold before. Most of the traders at the Igbudu Market, Delta State, blamed the situation to inadequate supply and poor sales which brought about the slight reduction in prices. For Ose Market, Onitsha, prices of the commodity were also on the high side, as a 50kg bag formerly sold for between N19,500 and N21,000 declined slightly by  8 percent, currently going for between N18,000 and N19,000 depending on the brand and the haggling power of the customer. Mr. Emma Uche, who sells grains at the Ose Market, Onitsha, in a chat with our correspondent, linked the situation to inadequate supply owing to few numbers of farmers that are into rice production especially when compared with the number of populace to supply. At the Itam Market, Uyo, the trend was not contrary but also on expensive, especially with prices of a 50kg bag of local rice currently selling within the region of N18,500 and N19,000 as against N21,000 initially sold. Mr. Dennis Ukpo, who trades in the commodity at the Itam Market, Uyo, blamed the situation on government at all levels for failure to set up a price control system to checkmate greedy traders. This is just as Madam Rebecca Ini, another trader of same market gave a contrary opinion, connecting the unfavourable price to insufficient supply coupled with high cost of transportation. For Garko Market, Kano, prices of a 50kg bag of local rice reduced marginally to between N16,500 and N17,500 down from between N18,500 and N19,000 sold previously. Many of the traders at the Garko Market, Kano, said that the reduction in prices of the commodity did not reflect in their sales due to lack of money. The same could be said for that of Achau Market, Kaduna, especially with prices of a 50kg bag of local rice currently attracting between N17,000 and N17,800 as against N18,500 earlier sold. But this depends on the quality of the brand and bargaining power of the buyer. Mr. Ndubuisi Okeke, a trader at the Achau Market, Kaduna, ascribed the persistent rise to high cost of rice production which had discouraged a lot of farmers from going into the business. Visit to Lafenwa Market, Ogun State, showed that prices of local rice still maintained an upward trend despite the slight reduction it recorded. For instance, prices of a 50kg bag which previously went for between N19,500 and N21,000, during the week, attracted between N18,000 and N19,000 signifying a marginal drop of 8 or 10 percent. Many of the traders at the Lafenwa Market, Ogun State, connected the situation to unavailability. For Bodija Market, Ibadan, majority of the rice sellers interviewed complained of poor patronage, a situation responsible for the marginal reduction which according to them had not yielded positive outcome. For example, a 50kg bag of local rice formerly sold for between N19,000 and N21,000 reduced, currently ranging from N16,500 to N18,500. In Lagos, visit to popular markets such as Daleko, Mile 12 and Oshodi revealed that prices of local rice still remained high especially with a 50kg bag currently going for between N16,000 and N18,500 as against between N18,000 and N21,000 earlier sold. This however, depends on the quality, market and the haggling power of the buyer. Emeka Osuji, who trades in the commodity at the Oshodi Market, Lagos, said sales had not been encouraging despite the slight reduction in prices of local rice, linking it to the unfavourable state of the economy.