ABUJA – Justice Binta Nyako of the Feder­al High Court, Abuja, on Monday granted bail to a former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Moham­med Bello Adoke (SAN), to the tune of N50 million. Also granted bail was Adoke’s co-defendant, Aliyu Abubakar, in the said sum. Both men
were docked by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on a
seven-count charge bor­dering on bribe-taking, mon­ey laundering and breach of
public office, among others. Ruling
on the bail appli­cation of the defendants, the court ordered that Adoke and
his co-defendant be released on bail on all the conditions that were earlier
given to them by a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Gwagwalada. Recall
that Justice Abuba­kar Kutigi of FCT High Court, Gwagwalad, had on January 30,
2020, granted the duo bail to the tune of N50 million with one surety in like
sum. The
court directed that the sureties must be responsible citizens that must depose
af­fidavits of means, adding that they must be resident within the jurisdiction
of the court and own verifiable landed properties worth the bail sum. It held that the defendants
must sign a written undertak­ing not to interfere with any of the prosecution
witnesses and to make themselves avail­able for trial at all times. Also the court ordered the
sureties to tender their three years tax clearance certifi­cates, even as it
seized inter­national passports of all the defendants, warning them not to
travel out of the country without permission. The bail followed an initial
42-count corruption charge the EFCC preferred against the defendants over
separate roles they played in the al­leged fraudulent transfer of ownership of
Oil Prospecting Licence (OPL) 245. Nyako also ordered that Adoke’s
international pass­port should be deposited with the Abuja High Court and that
he should not travel outside the jurisdiction of the court without permission. The judge then adjourned the
matter till April 1 and 2, 2020 for commencement of trial. Adoke’s co-defendant is facing
only one count charge of allegedly offering bribe to the former AGF. Adoke was accused in count one
of accepting as payment the sum of United States dollars equivalent to N300
million from Abubakar Aliyu in September 2013 in Abuja, thereby violating the
Money Laundering Prohibi­tion Act 2011 (as amended). Count seven reads, “That you
Aliyu Abubakar, some­time in September 2013, in Abuja within the jurisdic­tion
of this honourable court, made a payment of the sum of United States dollars
equiv­alent to N300 million to Mo­hammed Bello Adoke”, there­by violating and
the Money Laundering Prohibition Act 2011 (as amended). The anti-graft agency, ac­cording to its counsel, has lined up four key witnesses to prove its charges against Adoke and his co-defendant.