ADO-EKITI – A socio-development group, Ajoro Ekiti, has urged state Houses of Assembly in the South West to ensure that clauses criminalising any act or attempt to use the regional security outfit for politics or personal gains. Dare Ariyo-Atoye, the convener of the group, made this plea in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti. He urged the political leaders in the South West to use this golden opportunity to use Amotekun as a model for every part of the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ariyo- Atoye urged the Houses of Assembly in the six states of South West to insert clauses in the Amotekun Bill that would criminalise the personal and political use of security outfit. The association, known as ‘Ekiti Let’s Reason Together Group,’ also observed that the successes and exploits of Amotekun would make the contested idea of state police to become inevitable. It commended the South-West governors for putting the primary responsibility of security of lives and properties above political pressure and interest, while navigating through the needless storms of criticisms and conspiracies. “We wish to passionately appeal to the State Houses of Assembly in the six states of the South West which have the legislative responsibility to pass the Amotekun Bill into law, to urgently consider clauses that will criminalise the use of its personnel for personal and political interests. “Government is a continuum and as such, the South West security network must be aided with some restraining clauses in the Amotekun Act, to shield it from becoming a victim of immediate and future political and individual pressure under any guise.” “Some are praying for the initiative to fail; many are praying for it to succeed but it is the responsibility of our governments to ensure the success of the Amotekun initiative and supervise it to become a model for every part of the country. “Amotekun is an idea whose time has come; therefore, it must be strategically managed to endear the initiative to everyone and make State Police an inevitable idea for the country. ‘We wish to also commend the governors and governments of the six states of South West for weathering the storm in their bids to emplace this important security initiative, which has given the people of the region a massive psychological boost. “We also wish to remind our governors to prioritize the use of surveillance technology as a major security gadget for real-time monitoring of our lands and forests,” the statement added.