Last week was quite meritorious for the British cryptocurrency project Electroneum after partnering with one of the largest telecommunication companies in Asia, Cellcard, Cambodia’s longest-serving telecoms company. The development incited more glories after it was reported that Electroneum is now the 8th most downloaded application in the southeast Asian nation, days after sealing the deal with the 3 million users’ company. As revealed in a report today, Electroneum, behind a number of applications like ABA Mobile, Wing Money, True Money App, is now the 8 most downloaded app in Cambodia. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Done on Similar Web, the research was carried out by an Electroneum community member, who added that the blockchain project is doing a great job across the globe. Electroneum collaborated with Cellcard to enable users of the mobile network to top-up their mobile phone airtime and data with ETN token through the Electroneum application. As related by NewsLogical on January 31, users of Cellcard network can convert ETN rewards into a top-up for mobile phone on the mobile application. Electroneum says it is dedicated to giving the unbanked population financial freedom. The blockchain project is making a great impact in developing countries by partnering top telecom companies to allow people to top up their phones with ETN. This service is already available for people in Nigeria, Uganda, Brazil, Tanzania among other countries of the world. Electroneum Appears on Cambodia Top Newspaper Headline Electroneum alliance with Cellcard is really paving way for the cryptocurrency project in Cambodia as the name of the cryptocurrency, in recent times, spreads across the country. In a recent publication of a top newspaper in the nation, Electroneum got featured in the headline. The newspaper reported Electroneum’s collaboration with Cellcard. As reported by the newspaper, Electroneum’s Richard Ells said Cambodia is an important area for the blockchain company in southeast Asia.