LAGOS – Operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT), have smashed a child- trafficking syndicate and ar­rested 12 suspects. The syndicate is said to
special­ise in abducting little kids from their homes, sold them to waiting
buyers. Investigation revealed that six
of the abducted children have been res­cued by the police. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Further investigation revealed
that members of the syndicate op­erated in several states of country, including
the Federal Capital Terri­tory, FCT, Abuja. They were said to be operating
in several groups. One of the groups involved a
cou­ple, Ifeoma Ebony and Emmanuel Onyekwere. The couple allegedly went
around the country, stealing the children and selling to middle-men. The middle men in turn sold to
childless mothers and fathers who desperately need children. It was learned that Ebony, a
moth­er of two and her supposed husband or boyfriend Onyekere abducted sev­eral
children from their homes in Abia, Enugu and Edo State and sold to Blessing
Nwankwo, Chioma Nike and one Onwa, whose real names are yet unknown. It was gathered that they sold
the children at the rates of N250,000:00 to N450,000, each. Trouble started for the
syndicate after members stole two little chil­dren at Tunga Maji and Gwagwa
areas of Abuja, and sold to Nike at the rate N300,000:00 each. However, the father to one of
the children stolen at Gwagwa, simply identified as Olobo, reported the matter
to the police through a peti­tion to the Inspector General of Po­lice, Mohammed
Abubakar Adamu, who directed his operatives at the IRT, headed by Deputy
Commission­er of Police, Abba Kyari to investi­gate the incident. DCP Kyari deployed a crack team
of operatives from the Abuja office with a mandate to bring the syndi­cate to
book. It was gathered that the
operatives had a chat with Mr. Olobo, who dis­closed that Ebony and her
husband, Onyekwere rented an apartment in the compound where he resides with
his family and became close to his wife. According to him, his wife was
nursing a one-year-old baby. He said that one week after staying with them,
Ebony, who pretended to be assisting his wife, carried the baby under the guise
that she wanted to plait her hair. “Before we knew what was hap­pening,
Ebony and her husband ab­sconded with their daughter,” Olobo was quoted as saying. A police source told Saturday
INDEPENDENT that based on the information Olobo provided, oper­atives launched
a man-hunt for the suspects. They were trailed to Asaba
Delta State, where they were arrested. They confessed and aided the op­eratives
in arresting one Nwakwor and Nike, who sold the abducted chil­dren to final
buyers. The source also identified
other arrested suspects as Onyinye Benja­min, Ngozi Okoli, Nwokocha Okoli Ndiya
Kalu and Esther Ihiediwa. Fielding questions from journal­ists,
32-year-old, Ifeoma Ebony, a native of Obolafor in Enugu State, blamed her
involvement in child abduction and trafficking on her in­ability to get proper
education on the ills of what she was doing. She said: “I did not attend
second­ary school, because my father had two wives. He couldn’t send me to
school because he had so many chil­dren that he couldn’t cater for. I was
married off to an old man at a very young age and the old man died two years
into our marriage. “We had two children from the
marriage. Things became difficult for me and my children after the death of my
husband. I took my children to my mother in the village and traveled to Abuja.
I went into prostitution. I spent seven years as a prostitute in Abuja, then
one of my friends advised me to relocate to Oba Town in Anambra State where I
will make more money in prostitution in that town. I took the advice and
relocated. But one year into my stay, a girl known as Ogula from Benue State
told me that a nurse request­ed her to look for someone who was pregnant, that
when she delivered, that the child will be taken from her and she will be paid.
I told her that I can’t do such because I have two children and that I am not
ready to get pregnant again. She then asked me to follow her to her village and
when we got there, the girl then stole a girl-child and gave her to me. “At that time I had already gotten a boyfriend known as Emanuel
On­yekwere. Onwa then contacted me three months later and pleaded for
forgiveness and said he will pay me N500,000 for any child between the ages of
one and two. My boyfriend, Onyewkere, then went to his village and stole his
sister’s two year-old child and we contacted Onwa, but this time we followed
him down to Enugu State where the child was sold to an old woman driving a Toy­ota
Camry and she paid us the sum of N250,000. Onwa warned us not to steal children
on the road, because if we are caught, we will be mobbed and burnt. He advised
that we should move regularly to new areas, rent an apartment and when we see a
child; we should steal the child and leave the area. So, we went to Akuke area
of Enugu and we rented an apart­ment and we succeeded in stealing two children
who were between the ages of two and four from one On­yeka, who maltreated me
while I worked as a prostitute in Abuja. “We sold to one Chioma, whom we met through Onwa for the sum of
N300,000. We then rented anoth­er apartment at Gwagwa area of Abuja. We stayed
for two weeks and I stole one- year- old baby and sold the baby to Chioma for
N300,000:00. We then left Abuja and ran to Ipoba Hill area of Benin in Edo
State and rented an apartment. There we stole a child belonging to a woman who
was sick and could not pay proper attention on her child. The child used to
come to our own compound to play. So, I stole the child, took her to Chioma who
paid us the sum of N300,000:00. We spent most of these monies on food, clothes
and other frivolities,” she narrated. In his confession, Emmanuel Oyekwere 32, a native of Isialangwa
North of Abia State, said his quest to build a house for his mother got into
the business. “I am a tailor. I am not yet married and I didn’t go to school.
It was Ifeoma who I met where she was working as a prostitute that lured me
into this business of stealing and of little children. Things weren’t good for
me and my family has no house in the village and she assured me that the
business would fetch me mon­ey to build a house for my mother. Then I went to
my village and stole my sister’s son, Victor and we sold him to an old woman
who accosted us at Holy Ghost Church in Enugu State. I pretended like I was
pray­ing when we got to the church and I don’t think anyone noticed what we
were doing because the boy looks so much like me. I was paid N250, 000. People
knew I was the last person seen with the child and they have been calling me to
bring their child. They have even threatened to kill me if I don’t bring back
the child. Onwa then took me to a native doctor who prepared fake charms for me
that will make my people not to look for me or suspect and he took the sum
N250,000, which I was paid for the child. I then recruited one of my friends
known as Aboy. Then we moved to Enugu State and he stole three children for,
one from his vil­lage and two from Enugu and we sold the for N900,000. I stole
a total number of eight children and I am crying because I can’t go to my vil­lage
and all the money, I made I can not do anything with it. If not for this Ifeoma
that got into this business, I wouldn’t have been in this mess.” Chioma Nick, 46-year-old, divor­cee, said she lost her marriage
of 22 years because she had no children for her estranged husband. She said that after she got preg­nant from a man she met in
Ghana, her husband rejected it and sent her parking. According to
her, she got a male child from her Ghanaian boyfriend adding that her son grew
up, he started asking for a sister, then she approached the child welfare
office in Umuhaia so she could adopt a girl child. She said she met a wom­an
identified as Mummy Ohabiam, who told her that she would link her to a
syndicate that could help her get children from a different source and all they
needed to do was to perfect adoption papers from the welfare office.