BENIN – Following the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by the Edo state chapter of the party, the 18 Party chairmen in the state under the aegies of the Edo APC Local Government Chairmen’s Forum on Wednesday endorsed Hon. Charles Idahosa, a former Commissioner for Information as the new party leader in the state . The party chairmen who paid Idahosa, a foundation member of the APC a solidarity visit at his Benin City home said they all agreed that he is worthy of his role based on his sterling leadership qualities and his contributions to the success of the party. The spokesman of the Chairmen’s forum, Benjamin Oghumu, urged Idahosa to shun all forms of destruction and remain focus in the fight to defeat maverick politicians who do not mean well for the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In his response, Idahosa faulted claims in some quarters suggesting that the wish of Oshiomhole will prevail in Edo APC Governorship primaries. He insisted that Edo State 2020 governorship election which is billed to hold for September 19 would determine the survival or extinction of the party in the State. Also speaking on his purported suspension by a faction of the party, he said there is no cause for alarm as it as another wise goose chase According to him, “There is no cause for alarm…Don’t be bothered or shaken, Obaseki must do his eight years. If anybody by omission or commission stops him, APC is dead in Edo State. I have said it many times and I want the powers that be to understand this”. “For those who benevolence spirit cracked their palm kernel for them should not think they are God. You (APC Local Government Chairmen) do not talk from both sides of the mouth because you have a gift of the garb”, he said. Also speaking on the alleged gang-up against Obaseki by four governorship aspirants namely Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, former deputy governor of the State, Pius Odubu, Major-General Charles Airhiavbere (Rted) and former Minister of Works (State) Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Idahosa who is from Uhunmwode Local Government Area of the State, boasted that the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki will defeat the four APC contenders in the forthcoming Governorship election, having made them to kiss the dust in the State APC governorship primaries in 2016. He also said the ongoing political gymnastics by some dissident members of the party to stop governor Obaseki’s re-election was for their own pecuniary benefits. “APC will determine the kind of primaries that they want, not one person. It might interest you to know that I have never lost any battle and I want to assure you here that I stand like the rock of Gibraltar behind the re-election of Godwin Obaseki”. “Nothing will make to leave him because he is doing the right thing. People are susceptible to change. There is no way that things are not a little bit stiff or difficult for all of us, unlike precious system that we are used to. But, for you to make an omelette, you must break the egg. He (Obaseki) is focus and nobody can bend him”, Idahosa also said Oshiomhole, has no legal authority to function as National Chairman of the APC having been suspended by his ward, can no longer flaunt himself as the legitimate chairman of the party at the national level. Idahosa, who is a former political adviser to Oshiomhole, noted that any action taken by the embattled national chairman is null and void because it is an illegality. According to him, “First and foremost, irrespective of your position, you are a member of the party and as President Muhammadu Buhari said in his speech when the Caucus met; It is bottom-up. You have to be relevant in your unit, ward, local government and state level before you can go to Abuja to claim big titles. “As far as we are concerned in Edo APC, Oshiomhole is no longer the national chairman. The constitution is very clear in Article 21 on how members of the party can be dealt with but because of the ignorance of many of his followers, they think that once you become the national chairman of the party, you are above the law. Oshiomhole has no legitimacy” Warning the APC of the legal implication of retaining Oshiomhole as the national chairman, Idahosa said, “He has been suspended by his ward and the party leaders there. These leaders are not spirits; they came out openly to endorse his suspension. They are not hiding and have not denied saying so. However, he decided to ignore these leaders because he has never respected the party’s constitution. “They are just postponing the evil day because at the end of the day, any action by him or any action he takes now as national chairman is null and void because it is an illegality. He knows this but he is pretending not to know. I only feel sorry for the APC because of the legal implication in the future” he said. In a related development, the leadership of the APC in Uhunmwonde Local Government Area also passed a vote of implicit confidence on Idahosa, describing his suspension by a faction of the party as baseless and null and void. This was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of an enlarged meeting of the local council’s party executives held in Ehor, Uhunmwonde LGA . The communiqué, signed by Uhunmwode APC Legal Adviser, Barr. Emmanuel Idahosa; Secretary, Enderly Igbinazaka and LGA Party Chairman, Engr Justin Omoruyi, condemned in strong terms the activities of Hon. Samson Osagie, Chief Solomon Edebiri, Barr. Washington Osifo and others who have constituted themselves into a factional group called the Edo People Movement (EPM). “The party condemned their actions as it relates to the meeting held by EPM on the 2nd of February 2020. The meeting is illegal, as they have no right to call for such meeting, which right is the exclusive preserve of the party chairman. The party disassociates itself from EPM as a group. “Hon. Samson Osagie, Barr. Washington Osifo and Chief Solomon Edebiri remain suspended from the party. The meeting held on 2nd February 2020 to suspend Hon. Charles Idahosa is illegal and the decision reached is worthless,” the communique read. It continued, “Hon Charles Idahosa remains the indefatigable leader of the Local Government, State and the nation at large. A vote of confidence is passed on him as the Party Leader in Uhunmwonde, as well as on the LGA Party Chairman, Engr. Justin Omoruyi, and the State Party Chairman, Barr. Anselm Ojezua. “A vote of no confidence is passed on the suspended national chairman of APC Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for his continuous stirring of political violence/crisis within the party and the state”. The party leaders expressed confidence in the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki and pledged support for his second term bid alongside his Deputy, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu. Speaking to journalists at the end of the enlarged meeting, the Commissioner of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Hon. Richard Edebiri, who hails from Uhunmwonde LGA, said the local council is united in support of the governor, urging the people to continue to support Hon. Idahosa and the governor for the development of the area and the state. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia urged the people of Uhunmwonde to have absolute trust in the governor and support his re-election so he can continue with his developmental strides. He urged EPM members to repent and retrace their footsteps as Idahosa remains the leader in the LGA. Chairman of the council, Hon. Napoleon Agbama urged the people to remain focused and continue to support the party.