JOS – The Nigerian Governors Forum has condemned last month’s attacks and killings in two separate local government areas of Plateau Senatorial District, describing the two incidents in Mangu and Bokkos Federal Constituency as barbaric and criminal. The Governor Forum delegation led by the Kebbi State governor,  Atiku Bagudu,  who were in Jos at the weekend to commiserate with Governor Simon Lalong over the sad incidents in Plateau told Governor Lalong that members of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum  would team up with him to bring lasting peace to Plateau State. He told Governor Lalong that the governors would team up to encourage him to put the sad incidents behind and go all out to bring the perpetrators of the killings to justice. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Governor Bagudu said Plateau State had been enjoying relative  peace under Governor Lalong’s purposeful leadership which made President Buhari and his vice, Professor Osinbajo, in 2018 to visit Jos to commend him for his efforts in bringing all groups on the Plateau to work together and speak with one voice on matters that affect the common good of all in the state. He assured Governor Lalong that whatever support they could offer individually and collectively, they would offer to help to him bring Plateau circle of violence to an end. He commended the steps Governor Lalong has taken so far to remedy and deal with the situation on the Plateau and urged the people of Plateau State to rally round the governor whom he described as  a man of peace  and visionary leader who has attracted goodwill of many across Nigeria. Bagudu said that Governor Lalong was made Chairman of Northern Governor’s Forum because of their belief that Lalong is a leader. Responding, Governor Lalong thanked his colleagues for their visit and solidarity which he said would help him to deal with the situation at hand in the state. Lalong said they have done a lot to make sure people live in peace by setting up Plateau State Peace Building Agency and as well established the state-owned Operation Rainbow security outfit. ‘’We also have on ground Operation Safe Haven Early warning signals and also created avenues for dialogue and forgiveness .This recent incident wants to take us back to the dark days but we will never allow it and that was why I told the community leaders and Fulani leaders that they cannot say they did not know those who were attacking and killing the villagers. They must assist the security agencies to fish out these killers and their sponsors or become suspects themselves since the killings happened in their domain,’’ Governor Lalong stressed. Governor Lalong, however, expressed hope that the ongoing investigation by the security agencies would unravel those behind the killings and also lead to their arrest and prosecution. He assured all concerned over the recent development in his state that the recent attacks and killing of innocent citizens of the state by the enemies of the state would be the last of such incident in the state. Those who were part on Governor Bagudu  delegation to Jos on condolence visit to Governor Lalong  were Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State and Jigawa State Governor  Mohammed Badaru.