Awka- Ike Oligbo, a London-based business tycoon from Uruegbe village Umuoji in Idemili-North local government area of Anambra state, has said that his burning desire to redeem his state of origin from what he described as infrastructural decay knows no bounds, as he plans to replicate what he has seen abroad in Anambra state. Oligbo who revealed his mission for Anambra state when he visited the PDP secretariat in Awka at the weekend, to intimate the state executives of his intention to pursue his gubernatorial ambition on the platform of the party, noted that from what he has seen so far in the state, Anambra deserves the attention a pregnant woman requires. He said the present state government was not doing enough to give the state a face-lift infrastructure-wise but if given the mandate in 2021, he would cause a veritable and verifiable infrastructural development across Anambra state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Oligbo said, “they might have been doing their best but their best is not good enough . We need to repair and reconstruct  every road in Anambra. “What I want to do is to is to bring what I call Western Standard into Anambra. I want everyone to see Anambra as a model of all states in Nigeria.” “Every village, every town, all the nooks and crannies of Anambra will have to be tarred and look good. That is my goal. That is what I intend to do when it comes to infrastructure.” “I have other things in mind and I also have other ideas but infrastructure is most paramount because when you have good roads and security, people will be able to do business conveniently but when you have bad roads, everything comes to standstill.” The international business man expressed confidence that he would win the 2021 governorship elections to enable him to bring his objectives and laudable ideas to fruition to change Anambra from what he described as developmental backwardness. The guber aspirant also said that youths would form an integral part of his government, stressing that he has been supporting youths financially and otherwise in the last 10-years. He explained that youths were very important for the country and for the state, noting that his administration would have a special place for the youths such that if one is born in the country, he would ensure that the individual does not regret being a citizen of Nigeria.