No fewer than 22 newly employed geologists in the Ogun State Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment have been tasked to brace up for work and contribute their quota towards the achievement of the ministry’s N4.5biilion revenue target. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Olu Ola Aikulola, gave this charge while declaring open an in-house training for newly-employed Geologists in the ministry organised by the Department of Geological Services at the Ministry’s Conference Room, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Aikulola called on the officers to give their best and add value to the ministry, adding that as the face of the state economy, the ministry deserves to improve on its past revenue records. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He cautioned the officers against any form of financial indiscipline and every act inimical to the interest of the state and the ministry as all infractions will attract appropriate sanctions. The permanent secretary lauded the department for the initiative to train the officers and underscored the importance of regular training on staff performance, stating that it helps in the revision of past knowledge, widens knowledge base and updates officers on the latest trends in their field. He was impressed with the academic qualifications of the officers and called on them to be prepared for opportunities assuring that the ministry would provide conducive environment for them to give their best. The Director, Geological Services of Ministry, Olalekan Eniolawun, charged the officers to be ready to embark on inspection of mining sites, provision of technical assistance and discovery of mineral deposits across the state in order to achieve the ministry’s revenue target. The Director Administration and Supplies of the Ministry, Ibironke Elemide, while speaking on the topic: “Ethics of The Civil Service,” charged the officers to be disciplined, regular punctual and well dressed to work. They are also expected to uphold the oath of secrecy within the service. Speaking on behalf of the new intakes, Shakirat Afolabi, commended the department for the training, assuring that they would give their best in their service to the State as well as the Ministry.