LAGOS – Thursday February 6, 2020 came like every other day. But, for 74 political parties in Nigeria, the day ended on a sad note. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) deregistered these 74 parties. Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC chairman, while announcing the delisting of the political parties at a press conference, said the action was based on the fact that the affected political parties failed to meet constitutional requirements that determine the continuous existence of political parties in the country. The delisted parties according to Yakubu, include: Advanced Allied Party (AAP), All Blending Party (ABP), Advanced Congress Of Democrats (ACD), ACPN – Allied Congress Party Of Nigeria; AD – Alliance For Democracy; AGA – All Grassroots Alliance, AGAP – All Grand Alliance Party, ANDP – Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party, ANN – Alliance For New Nigeria, ANP – Alliance National Party, ANRP – Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party, APA – African People Alliance, APDA – Advanced People’s Democratic Alliance, APN – Alternative Party Of Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Others are: ASD – Alliance Of Social Democrats, AUN – Alliance For A United Nigeria, BNPP – Better Nigeria Progressive Party, CAP – Change Advocacy Party, CC – Coalition For Change, CNP – Change Nigeria Party, COP – Congress Of Patriots, DA – Democratic Alternative, DPC – Democratic People’s Congress, DPP – Democratic People’s Party, FDP – Fresh Democratic Party, FJP – Freedom And Justice Party, GDPN – Grassroots Development Party Of Nigeria, GPN – Green Party Of Nigeria. Included are: HDP – Hope Democratic Party, ID – Independent Democrats, JMPP – Justice Must Prevail Party, KP – Kowa Party, LM – Liberation Movement, LPN – Legacy Party Of Nigeria, MAJA – Mass Action Joint Alliance, MDP – Modern Democratic Party, MMN – Masses Movement of Nigeria, MPN – Mega Party Of Nigeria, MRDD – Movement For The Restoration And Defence Of Democracy, NAC – National Action Council, NCMP – Nigeria Community Movement Party, NCP – National Conscience Party, NDCP – Nigeria Democratic Congress Party and NDLP – National Democratic Liberty Party. Others: NEPP – Nigeria Elements Progressive Party, NFD – Nigeria For Democracy, NGP – New Generation Party Of Nigeria, NIP – National Interest Party, NPC – Nigeria People’s Congress, NPM – New Progressive Movement, NUP – National Unity Party, PCP – People’s Coalition Party, PDC – People For Democratic Change, PDM – People’s Democratic Movement, PPA – Progressive People’s Alliance, PPC – Providence People’s Congress, PPN – People’s Party Of Nigeria, PPP – People’s Progressive Party, PT – People’s Trust, RAP – Reform And Advancement Party. The rest are: RBNP – Re- Build Nigeria Party, RP – Restoration Party Of Nigeria, SNC – Save Nigeria Congress, SNP – Sustainable National Party, SPN – Socialist Party Of Nigeria, UDP – United Democratic Party, UP – United Patriots, UPC – United People’s Congress, UPN – Unity Party Of Nigeria, UPP – United Progressive Party, WTPN – We The People Nigeria, YDP – Young Democratic Party, YES – Electorates Solidarity, and YP – Youth Party. Mr. Rotimi Oyekanmi, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the INEC Chairman, while giving further explanation on the deregistration, said filing a matter in court alone could not have stopped INEC from carrying out its mandate. According to Oyekanmi, “INEC is a law-abiding institution and our compliance with court orders and judgments have been well reported and documented. When the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, announced the deregistration of 74 political parties on February 6, he revealed that only 16 political parties met the criteria for existence based on Section 225A of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “However, one political party, the Action People’s Party (APP), filed a suit in court and obtained an order restraining INEC from deregistering it. Therefore, the party remains registered until the determination of the case. “One other party that was registered after last year’s general elections was also spared. This brings the number to 18. “There is a difference between filing an action in court and obtaining an order. The 33 political parties may have filed a suit in court, but the matter has not been determined yet. To that extent, filing a matter in court alone could not have stopped INEC from carrying out its mandate.” Speaking on the development, Yinka Odumakin, spokesman for Afenifere, pan-Yoruba socio-political group, said: “We recognise the right of association enshrined in the constitution and will always defend it. But there is no denying that a lot of the parties are jokes. “Our advice to INEC is to continue to clean up the electoral process so we can truly determine the strengths of the parties so that the ones that do not meet requirements of existence would not compete when they are deregistered.” Also, Dr Tunji Abayomi, a constitutional lawyer, described the deregistration as a welcome development that would help reduce the high cost of conducting polls in the country. “It is a welcome development because most of the political parties are just existing by names without adding value to the country. “Many of the political parties in Nigeria are irrelevant to the democratic process. INEC’s step would reduce the cost of conducting elections in the country,” he said In the same vein, Tayo Cairo, a former Chairman of the PDP in Ondo State, said: “It is always confusing to the electorate to see about 100 political parties on the ballot papers. Not more than 12 political parties have recognisable and functional offices in the country, deregistering the affected parties was not out of order. I believe Nigeria should not have more than five viable political parties. The unnecessary proliferation of parties would not help the system.” Also, Shettima Yerima, President, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) said, “It is better to deregister most of them because they are not productive. You cannot form a political party that cannot produce even ordinary councillor in the entire 774 LGA and you call yourself a political party. “Some of them are there for business and that is why it is easy for them when they sit down, they will just wake up and say they have endorsed the candidate of this or that party, meanwhile they don’t even have followers and members. All they do is to hold their offices in their briefcases and go about collecting money everywhere. For me, I totally agree with it. Let us have viable parties even if it is just two parties.” However, the pioneer chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Lagos State, Hon. Akinola Obadia, condemned INEC’s action, stressing that the decision was ultra- vires, as it was also unconstitutional. Obadia advised IPAC National Executive and its state branches to go to court to challenge the electoral agency, even as he urged political parties to be calm, as the court would reverse the INEC decision based on constitutional provisions. He advised INEC to look for means to register parties that could only vie for local positions during local government and State Assembly elections, stressing that there was no way all political parties would have the capacity to vie for national offices. He also stressed that the freedom of association, as enshrined in the constitution could not be taken away by INEC through the back door or deregistration. The African Action Congress (AAC), although not deregisterd, described the INEC’s action as another political illegality in the current democratic dispensation. Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi, AAC Acting Chairman in Lagos State, expressed disappointment that INEC could not provide comprehensive explanation for deregistering some of the parties. Ajayi, a labour activist and General Secretary, United Action for Democracy (UAD), expressed surprise that INEC delisted radical political parties like the National Conscience Party (NCP) and the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN), natural allies of AAC. According to him, “For us at Lagos AAC, we reject this illegality. It is against the spirit of democratic and inconsistent with the 1999 constitution. Nigeria democracy should grow to the point of even having independent candidates, instead of shrinking platforms.” Ajayi, former Director of Mobilisation of NCP, said: “It is not a must that every one out of millions must go to the major parties,” maintaining that the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi “and other real democrats have fought for unlimited democracy and no one has a right to reverse such victory except the Supreme Court. “We call on INEC to reverse this illegality and we call on radical parties that got registered to challenge this misnomer in court and at public opinion. “We in AAC will stand in solidarity with all oppressed parties unconditionally and we will ever defend unlimited democracy. “We call on INEC to face its internal irregularities that have produced fake results and electoral hazards instead of victimising parties that do not have rogues who are able to steal from our commonwealth to build party structures. “We call on AAC members to give unconditional solidarity to all parties of the oppressed. We have a world to win together!” As it stands, analysts believe that INEC may not find it easy with the delisted parties as they may all head to court over the issue.