ABUJA – The Minister of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman Adamu, has tasked the top management staff of the ministry and its agencies to re-double their efforts towards contributing to the realisation of the vision of President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years. Adamu gave the task while declaring open the Management Retreat for Directors, Deputy Directors in the Ministry, Executive Directors of Agencies, and the Managing Directors of the River Basin Development Authorities (RBDA’s) under his Ministry in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. A statement by Mrs. Kenechukwu Offie, Director Information in the Ministry, said the top management retreat was organised to discuss and proffer feasible contributions and strategies of the Water Sector towards achieving Mr. President’s desire of reducing poverty in Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The minister, who went down the memory lane, said the last retreat was held in 2015 to fashion out Water Resources Road Map 2016 -2030, adding that it was structured into short term and long term strategies for effective service delivery. He noted that the outcome of the 2015 retreat as approved by President Mohammadu Buhari in June 2016 sharpened and guided most of the ministry’s activities during his first tenure in office. He added that 2015 retreat was aimed at strengthening the weakness in the delivery of the Ministry’s mandate and to develop a “Road Map” that will enable sustainable positive impact in the Water Sector within a short period, based on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) frame work. The prominent issues in the road map, according to him, include “the conclusion of Draft National Water Policy, National Irrigation and Drainage Policy and National Water Policy Bills; Organisational and Manpower Review of the Ministry towards repositioning it for enhanced service delivery; Identification of Dams with Hydro Power potential for development as well as Development and implementation of a National Irrigation Development Programme. Other salient issues in the Water Resources Road Map are the development and implementation of a National Water Supply and Sanitation programme to attain the SDGs, among others. The minister said the ministry was able to record some achievements such as the approvals through the Federal Executive Council of National Water Resources Bill, National Water Resources Policy and National Irrigation and Drainage Policy. Pursuant to the Roadmap, Adamu said two departments were restructured, which are now known as Department of River Basin Operations Inspectorate, headed by a Director with Water Resources Management background and Department of Planning Research and Statistics, which is known as Department of Water Resources Planning and Technical Support Services (WRPTSS), which is headed by a Director with Engineering background. He further announced that the ministry undertook technical audit of the inherited 116 major uncompleted and abandoned projects for prioritisation and completion, as it was discovered that  Irrigation and Drainage has 38 uncompleted projects, dams has 37 as well as Water Supply, which has  41 uncompleted projects.