ASABA – Delta State government has cautioned some owners of health facilities and workers over their refusal to adhere to the procedures as spelt out by the Emergency Operations Committee on how to contain the spread of Lassa fever. It reiterated that any medical facility that has treated a confirmed Lassa fever case will be shut down for 48hrs and the premises disinfected before such a facility is allowed to continue to render health care to patients. The state said that failing to do so, such a facility poses a risk of spreading the disease. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, handed down the warning during the daily meeting of the Emergency Operations Committee on Lassa fever at the Emergency Operations Centre, Asaba, adding that the government will not allow the health of residents to be compromised. While urging medical health workers in both public and private health facilities in the state who had come in contact with suspected Lassa fever cases, to as a matter of urgency, report to the Disease Surveillance and Notification Officers (DNSOs) and submit themselves for proper screening, Ononye decried a situation where action(s) of a health worker who is not cooperating with the Emergency Operations Committee on Lassa fever to carry out contact tracing impedes efforts of the committee. The commissioner commended the officials of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for sending a Rapid Response Team led by Dr. Belu Abaye to Delta State with the view to giving technical assistance and backstopping to the state on how to contain the disease. Giving an update of Lassa fever in the state, Dr. Ann Ojimba, Incident Manager, Emergency Operations Committee on Lassa fever, said that “As at 6pm on February 11, 2020, the number of positive cases has risen to 14 while the number of death still remains at one.” She revealed that the corpse of a Deltan who died of Lassa fever in Kebbi State and brought to the state for burial has been properly buried by the health officials to avoid the spread since the corpse has the potential of spreading the virus. Ojimba expressed gladness over the discharge of two patients (a corps member serving in the state and a medical doctor) earlier referred to Irrua Specialist Hospital, Edo State.