CHIOMA UMEHA, TOYIN ADEBAYO LAGOS /ABUJA – No fewer than 10,000 cases of the deadly Wuhan corona­virus cases have been con­firmed, according to a data from Johns Hopkins, released on Fri­day. Also, Botswana’s government has confirmed the country’s first suspected case of the virus. In a statement released on
Friday, the health and wellness department said that the suspected case was
regis­tered at Sir Seretse Khama Internation­al Airport upon arrival from China
on an Ethiopian Airways flight. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It also confirmed that the
person was currently under isolation, with investigations underway. The virus, provisionally known
as 2019-nCov, was declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern
on Thursday, the World Health Organ­isation(WHO) following the advice of the
Emergency Committee even as nations across the globe scramble to protect their
populations from the outbreak. The number of global confirmed
cases of the coronavirus infection has now surpassed SARS, a virus that was
largely contained within China be­tween 2002-03, the Johns Hopkins data showed. The disease is rapidly
spreading around the world with cases confirmed in 22 countries. Meanwhile, the Federal Govern­ment
has committed an additional sum of N71 million to enable it raise its level of
preparedness to detect, assess and respond promptly to any identified case of
Coronavirus. The Minister of Health, Dr
Osagie Ehanire made this revelation at a coro­navirus
inter-ministerial/multi-sec­toral preparedness and response meeting on Friday
in Abuja, saying, although Nigeria has the capacity to manage the virus should it
be con­firmed in Nigeria, there was the need to map out plans and strategies to
prevent the virus from being imported into the country either by air, land or
sea travel. According to him, with the declara­tion of the 2019-nCoV as a global public health emergency by the World Health Organisation, there was every need for Nigeria to strengthen its surveillance and response system activation. “The
amount approved is N71m for Port Health Services to scale up what they are
doing. Every penny that was requested was approved. As a matter of fact, they
gave a little bit more than was requested. That demonstrates the seriousness of
the government. The approval came within 24 hours. “Preliminary
data suggests that 2019-nCoV has transitional and characteristics similar to
SARS and MERS- coronavirus making it likely that without Intervention, it will
spread to communities and overwhelm health care facilities around the country.
This gives us reason for concern. “As
at Friday 31st of January, more than 9700 confirmed cases have been reported
mostly in mainland China alone and about 100 cases around the world. Fatality
as at this morning was 213 all of it in the Hubei province of China where the
epidermic epicen­tre is and no casualty anywhere else. There are no confirmed
cases in Afri­ca but the potential has been clearly demonstrated. “While
the risks of importation ex­ist, we must assure Nigerians of our capacity to
detect, assess and respond to this and other public health threats at the ports
of entry. Ongoing surveil­lance involves thermal scanners and visual
observation of travellers who may have visual signs of symptoms where any
suspect cases are detected the travellers are asked to step aside and travel
history is taken to ensure relevance to determining response. The established
public health emer­gency contingency plan will then be activated accordingly. “The
President has approved ad­ditional funds for the Port Health Services yesterday
(Thursday). The resources are being provided for sur­veillance and screening
activities that will be done at the ports of entry to Ni­geria,” the minister
stressed. While
soliciting for the support of state governments especially those hosting
international airports to en­hance surveillance, preparedness and responses
activities in their states, he disclosed that, “The NCDC has activat­edthecoronaviruspreparednessgroup
and will activate its incident command system for the coronavirus once there is
a suspected case in Nigeria. NCDC is also working closely with WHO and other
partners to establish testing ca­pacity at NCDC reference laboratory in Abuja
or abroad if need be. “The government of Nigeria
is strongly committed to strengthening preparedness in the event of the novel
coronavirus or any other outbreak. As we continue to monitor the situation,
Nigerians are advised to remain calm and protect themselves.” Also, the Minister of
Information and Culture, Lai, Mohammed, who revealed that the entire
internation­al community has a lot of confidence in Nigeria arising from the
manner in which the Ebola crisis was man­aged in 2014, appealed to the citizen­ry
to ensure they undertake the pre­ventive measures of frequent hand washing with
soap under running water, proper covering of mouth and nose when sneezing
and/or cough­ing which can be done into the elbow or a tissue that must be
immediately discarded, and to avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms
of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing. “The entire international
communi­ty are not expecting anything less from us. We must not just do what we
did in 2014, we must do better.” He stressed that the Federal
Gov­ernment will not stop Nigerians from travelling to China or any other coun­try
where Coronavirus has manifested. He said that rather than impose
a travel ban, there will be travel advisory that will help Nigerians who wish
to visit China to do so without any encum­brances to their health and
wellbeing. “We know it is a bit difficult
to ban people from travelling. Another thing is that this is not a basis to
stigmatise people who come from there. “Even if we have Nigerians who
are there unless they indicate interest that they want to come home, we can’t
force them. I know we have Nigerians in Wuhan; our Embassy in China has
confirmed that we have about 16 Nige­rians in Wuhan and they are in touch with
them. “They have, however, not
indicated their interest to come home. They will, however, contact our embassy
if they like to come home,” he said. The minister said there was a
need for the general public to be enlightened and for Nigerians travelling to
be abso­lutely transparent. According to the World Health
Organisation (WHO), coronaviruses are a family of viruses that cause ill­ness
ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as SARS and Middle
East respiratory syndrome (MERS). These viruses were originally
trans­mitted between animals and people. SARS, for instance, was believed to
have been transmitted from civet cats to humans while MERS travelled from a
type of camel to humans. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Gov­ernment
has said it had reached an agreement with the China Embassy in Nigeria to
quarantine all Chinese returning to Lagos from their country to prevent the
outbreak of coronavirus. The state Commissioner for
Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said at a press briefing that the Chinese
government, through her embassy in Nigeria was working with Lagos State
Government to prevent the entry of coronavirus into the state. He said, “We are very happy
with the cooperation we are receiving from the Chinese government. We’ve had a
very serious and high-level discussion with the Chinese government through
their embassy in Lagos. Our primary concern has been the return of their
citizens to Lagos in a few days and we are happy to inform you that the Embassy
of China is also concerned about this, and they have sent out infor­mation
through notifications to their citizens and companies located in La­gos that
their citizens should try and remain in China until there is clarity about how
this infection is going. “However, if someof themchooseto return,
andwecannotrestrictpeople, if they do return to Lagos, the instruction from the
Chinese Embassy is that they should be quarantined for a period of 10 to 14
days in their houses, hostels and accommodations.” 