LAGOS  – Minister of Transportation Rt. Chibuike Amaechi has assured that the Federal Government is fully prepared by perfecting strategic plans to deploy special mission aircraft to boost the activities of six armoured aircraft already in the country before the end of February to tackle headlong, the security and economic challenges facing the nation’s territorial waters. Amaechi, who gave this assurance in Lagos after a crucial meeting with Heads of Parastatal and Agencies under his ministry yesterday, said the meeting to was to ensure the safety of the nation’s water become imperative as shipping communities are becoming worried over rate of insecurity on the waters, occasioned by piracy and robbery attacks, taking place on the high seas. He said: “Those who do business on the water are getting worried, but I can assure you the NIMASA is on top of it.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Transportation Minister , who appealed to citizens to cooperate with the security operatives in the fight, emphasised that the sea  criminals do not live on the water but “with us,” adding that when the onslaught against criminals terrorising the territorial waters commences, people should not misinterpret it as if the military is waging war against the South. Dakuku Petersise, in his remarks, said that the country had acquired a lot of assets that would enhance the security of Nigerian Waters. Peterside emphasised that Nigeria is not handing over its waters to the Israelis; rather, they are to train Nigerian security personnel who would secure the waters. He disclosed that six intercession boats and six armoured vehicles have been acquired and already in Nigeria. He said that the first Helicopter is expected in the first quarter of 2020, while 80% of the required equipment would have been in Nigeria by June this year. He further disclosed that the first set of operatives have completed their training, while training for the second set would soon commence. The Director-General also disclosed that the first special mission aircraft will be in the country before the end of the first quarter of the year, while six armoured aircraft were already in the country, and the first unmanned aerial vehicle would come in before the end of February. “We expect the first helicopter in the first quarter of this year. Almost all the communication gadgets are in the country as well as the Personal Protective Gear (PPG). The C4i centre is fully operational in Kirikiri, the NIMASA Research Centre. Those are the assets we have on ground. “However, between now and June this year, over 80 per cent of the assets would be in the country and they would be manned by Nigerian military”, he said. Dakuku stated that the training aspect of the project had since commenced in phases, and that the first set of training for C4i operators and intelligence officers had been concluded. Basic infantry training for soldiers who would fight on land around the littoral areas has also been concluded and the soldiers awaiting deployment, according to him. “These trainings would continue over time as we try to integrate the intelligence officers with the C4i and those operating the special mission vessels and aircraft,” Dakuku added 