Plot To sack the
Na­tional Chairman of the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus
has taken another dimension, as party stakeholders, it was learnt yesterday,
are presently shopping for re­placement. Those gunning for his re­moval, it was gathered are surviving
founding fathers of the Party, former Na­tional officers of the Party,
incumbent and former gov­ernors, former and serving members of the National
Assembly of the Party, former and serving state Chairmen of the Party. It was gathered that the arrow heads of the plot have already
zero on a member from South West to take over the position from Secondus. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It was further learnt that the plan is all about the forthcoming
2023 elec­tions and also that a com­mittee has already been put in place to
ensure that the plot succeed. A source, who spoke to our correspondent, on the condition of
anonymity said, “the plan now is to back Prince Oyinlola to lead the Party
at this crit­ical period to bail us out of the mess we found our­selves. This
will also serve as a compensation to the South West Zone of our Party which was
robbed of the position in the first instance. “As we are now, almost all the state chapters of our great
Party are in serious crisis. We lost most of these States and several seats at
the National Assembly to the crisis due to poor lead­ership at the National
level and we cannot wait to have a repeat in 2023. “Our elected
governors are not on the same page with our National Execu­tive Committee
(NWC). You can hardly see only two or three of them at our Nation­al
Secretariat now except for the last NEC meeting during which eight of them came
because of the new alignment
going on in the party with the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Wazi­ri Tambuwal
becoming the new Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum. “Even the Rivers State
Governor, Nyesom Wike, who is believed to have sin­gle handedly worked for the
emergence of Prince Secondus as our National Chairman is no longer on the same
page with him for obvious reasons of what happened in Port-Harcourt when Wike’s
preferred and anointed candidate lost the party’s presidential ticket to the
former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. “Today our
once vibrant National Assembly Caucus is in now disarray due to personal and
selfish inter­est of an individual, some of our staunch members who make things
happen in the National Assembly, their States, Zones and at the National level
were placed on indefinite sus­pension because of minor issues which a competent and
neutral National Chair­man could have resolved amicably. “This illegal suspension
has even divided the NWC of our party as a ranking member once came out to say
that the extension of the one month suspension of the law makers at House of
Representatives was nev­er discussed or approved at any of their meetings, so,
who is fooling who? “Also the party’s found­ing
fathers and former na­tional officers of the Party are complaining bitterly
that they are in the dark in the administration of the Party as it was the case
in the past when they nor­mally consult them on crit­ical issues before
decisions would be taken and they are now crying out that they will no longer
‘sidon’ look and allow things to go haywire. “So, we have a tradition in PDP in effecting
changes of leadership since incep­tion and this one will not be
different.”