Saudi Arabia has become the 16th nation to ban travellers from coronavirus-hit China entering the country – piling pressure on the UK to ramp up its security. The kingdom has barred its citizens from going to mainland China and suggested it would tear up the passports of anyone who defied the ban. Saudi Arabia’s immigration department claimed ‘regulatory provisions on travel documents would be applied’ to citizens who travel to the Asian nation. No further details were given. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The virus hasn’t yet been detected in Saudi Arabia, but five cases, including a family-of-four from Wuhan, have been confirmed in neighbouring United Arab Emirates. Fifteen other nations and territories have imposed some form of travel restrictions, including the US, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. But the UK Government has been branded ‘passive’ over its lack of response to the outbreak that has claimed 565 lives and infected 28,300 worldwide. Meanwhile China’s ambassador to the UK today criticised the Foreign Office’s advice for all 30,000 of its citizens in mainland China to come home, urging the Government to take ‘professional advice’ from the World Health Organization. The US is temporarily barring entry to foreign nationals, other than immediate family of US citizens and permanent residents, who have travelled in China within the last 14 days. Australia and New Zealand have imposed the same ban, while Japan is refusing entry to anyone travelling from Wuhan, regardless of whether they have symptoms. Scores of passengers fleeing the coronavirus-hit country have been pouring into Britain every day without being properly screened or tested for the virus, prompting calls for a similar blanket travel ban. But the UK is still thought to be bound to EU immigration laws and obligated to fall in line with any decisions on travel restrictions made by the bloc, despite having technically left on January 31. Ministers are said to be debating whether or not to impose the ban anyway, but Government sources say it would be pointless if Brussels does not follow suit. Passengers could still enter Britain indirectly via another EU state due to freedom of movement rules. ‘What is the point in one of you banning flights if none of the others are going to do it?’ a senior government source told MailOnline on Wednesday. ‘Because you just get in by an indirect route.’ Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage said last night: ‘We can monitor flights from China landing back in the UK but we can’t monitor those landing from China in the rest of Europe. EU freedom of movement does make us more vulnerable.’ It comes after China’s ambassador to the UK, Liu Xiaoming, criticised the UK’s plea for all 30,000 of its citizens in the mainland to come home. He said it was an overreaction and a disregard of the World Health Organisation (WHO) advice. Mr Xiaoming said: ‘[There] should be no panic, no overreaction. We advise the British side to take professional advice of WHO. ‘They told us they will follow WHO’s advice. It seems to me the words do not match with the deeds. ‘Life is still normal in most parts of China so I do say again in private and public I hope the British Government and public take an objective, cool-headed view of what is going on. We should support each other rather than weaken the other’s efforts.’ Saudi Arabia’s flagship national carrier, Saudia, had already joined other major airlines in suspending flights to China. On Sunday, 10 Saudi students were evacuated from the Chinese city Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, and quarantined upon arrival to Riyadh for two weeks. It comes after British scientists claimed to have made a breakthrough in the race against time for a vaccine to protect millions against the killer coronavirus. Infection specialist Professor Robin Shattock, of Imperial College London, revealed his team plan to begin trials of their experimental jab on animals next week. The team will then move onto humans in the summer, if they can achieve funding and that early tests are successful. Researchers across the world are desperately trying to find a vaccine against the SARS-like infection, which can cause pneumonia. The current record time for producing a vaccine is for Zika, which took academics seven months to go from the lab to human trials. Doctors fear if it takes that long this time, the unnamed coronavirus could already have swept the globe. Professor Shattock told Sky News that standard approaches to creating a vaccine can take between two and three years before it gets ‘to the clinic’. But he added: ‘We have gone from that sequence to generating a candidate in the laboratory in 14 days. ‘And we will have it in animal models by the beginning of next week. We’ve short-tracked that part. ‘The next phase will be to move that from early animal testing into the first human studies.’