The Management of Radio Bayelsa has suspended nine workers over an attack on the radio station by hoodlums who protested against the Supreme Court judgment that sacked All Progressives Congress (APC) governor-elect, David Lyon. John Idumange, the General Manager of the station, in a statement, said the affected staffs were advised to proceed on a one-month compulsory leave to allow the radio station conduct a preliminary investigation into the incident. The state-owned FM station, christened Radio Bayelsa, was amongst facilities attacked by the protesters, who also destroyed the private residences of immediate-past governor of the state, Seriake Dickson and his successor, Douye Diri, on Friday. A part of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Secretariat was also burnt during the protest, which made the Bayelsa Police Command to impose a three-day dusk-to-dawn curfew in the state. Some members of the APC led by its Secretary in the state, Mr Alabo Martins, had on February 14 staged a protest on the streets of Yenagoa to register their grievances ahead of the swearing-in of PDP’s Diri as governor. The Apex Court had ruled that Lyon’s deputy, Degi Ereminyo, submitted forged documents, which made them ineligible to contest the state’s governorship election in the first instance. INEC, in compliance to the judgment, on Friday issued a certificate of return to the PDP candidate, who took the oath of office amidst tight security at the car park at Government House, Yenagoa. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Bayelsa Council, in a statement, condemned the attack. In the statement signed by Mesrrs Samuel Numonengi and Ojio Ipigansi, Chairman and Secretary respectively, the NUJ urged the station to refrain from victimising union leaders without investigation. They urged security agencies to fish out the culprits, while decrying any form of political violence. The union described the incident as very unfortunate as the radio was celebrated all over the world few days ago as a powerful medium for celebrating humanity and a platform for building a virile democracy. NAN reports that two of the suspended workers are chairmen of Radio Bayelsa chapter of NUJ, and Radio and Television and Theatre Workers Union (RATTAWU).