President
Muhammadu Bu­hari has reviewed the mem­bership of the APC National
Reconciliation Committee with Chief Bisi Akande as its chairman. The
previous committee headed by Senate President Ahmad Lawan never got off the
blocks as it came under in­tense criticisms by stakehold­ers of the party,
signposting a subtle but steady decline of powers and influence of the APC
national chairman, Ad­ams Oshiomhole. The
reconstituted 12-mem­ber committee has two serv­ing governors as members,
including governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, and Gboyega Oyetola,
Osun State governor. Other
members of the committee are Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi; Deputy
Speaker, House of Representatives, Ahmed Id­ris Wase; former governor of
Nasarawa State, Sen. Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, and Sen. Kashim Shettima, former
Borno State governor. Also
named in the commit­tee are Sharon Ikeazor, Minis­ter of State for Environment;
Alhaji Nasiru Aliko Koki, Sen. Khairat Gwadabe-Ab­dulrazak, Sen. Binta Garba
while Sen. John Enoh serves as secretary. “The
committee is empow­ered to address grievances of party members across the
country and resolve existing conflicts, all with a view to fos­tering oneness,
strengthen the party for better governance and ensure unity of purpose within
the party”. According to a statement by
Lanre Issa-Onilu, the par­ty’s national spokesman, the committee will be
inaugurat­ed today at 3p.m at the APC national secretariat. It would be recalled that the
APC had in December 2019 announced Lawan as head of the reconciliation
committee in the party. Shortly after the an­nouncement,
Governor God­win Obaseki announced his rejection of the committee, saying it is
the creation of the national chairman, Osh­iomhole. He argued that since he
(Oshiomhole) is a key factor in the crisis, he should recuse himself from any
effort to ad­dress the problems bedeviling the party in some states, par­ticularly
Edo. He also argued that Lawan is
unfit to head the committee based on the alleged bias po­sition he took on the
crisis rocking Edo State House of Assembly. In a statement, Edo Com­missioner
for Information and Orientation, Paul Ohon­bamu and Special Adviser to the
Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said some of the
members of the commit­tee such as Senator Ahmad Lawan and the Deputy Speak­er
of the House of Representa­tives, Ahmed Wase, meddled in the altercation
between Edo State government and the national chairman of the APC, Comrade
Adams Osh­iomhole, and could not now be adjudicators on the matter. According to them, “We believe
the committee does not only fall-short of the most basic of integrity tests,
but is also a disservice to gen­uine efforts to bring a lasting solution to the
crisis rocking different chapters of the APC across the country. “To the specifics, Senator
Lawan and Ahmed Wase in the Senate and the House of Representatives, respective­ly,
presided over the plenary sessions where the motions to take over the Edo State
House of Assembly were deliberat­ed. They are also parties in the court case,
in which the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt ruled that the
National Assembly cannot take over the functions of the Edo State Assembly.” He continued, “The NWC, which constituted the recon­ciliatory committee, is presid­ed over by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is a key ac­tor in the crisis in Edo State. With this move, it amounts to him also being the judge in his own case. The state government noted that governors of
APC-controlled states were not consulted in the composi­tion of the committee,
which was an indication that the national chairman still acts like an
“emperor,” a trait that is exacerbating the crisis in the party.” Edo Govt Welcomes
Reconstituted Committee Meanwhile,
Edo State gov­ernment has applauded the reconstitution of the APC National
Reconciliation Com­mittee, expressing confidence that the committee will deliv­er
on its mandate to restore peace and unity in the party. In a statement, Secretary to
the State Government, Osarodion Ogie Esq., said the state government is
“grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari for putting togeth­er a committee of
persons with proven integrity and the forthrightness needed to deliver on this
very sensitive national assignment.” He added, “With the person of
the renowned statesman and leader of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande, heading this
committee, and other very worthy leaders of our party as members, we have no
doubt that justice will not only be done but seen to be done in the execution
of the mandate of this committee. “We hereby restate our full
commitment to peace in the APC both in our state and across the country. “Despite the many chal­lenges, APC has remained strong in Edo State and in Ni­geria, but we are certain that at the end of this exercise, the party will become even stron­ger and continue to lead our great country with its pro­gressive ideals for many years to come.”