Enugu – South East governors and Ohanaeze Ndigbo on Wednesday differed on the contentious regional security outfit at the South-East geo-political zone’s security summit in Enugu. While the governors in a communiqué after the meeting, expressed support for the Federal Government’s community policing programme, Ohanaeze Ndigbo advocated for the establishment of a regional security outfit to be named after the Biafran locally made bomb ‘Ogbunigwe’ (mass killer), that was a nightmare for the Nigerian forces during the civil war. In a communiqué after the summit, the South East governors pledged their commitment to support Federal Government community policing initiative meant to pragmatically involve community dwellers in security network. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum, Governor Dave Umahi, who read the communiqué, said in reaching the arrangement, the forum took cognizance of various grassroots security outfits such as Operation Kpochapu, Forests Guard, Vigilance Group and Neighbourhood Watch already existing in the zone, which operate close to the model of community policing. “The state governors have accepted and adopted community policing in bringing policing closer to the grassroots. “Each state will mandate and ensure that community policing committee made up of traditional rulers, religious leaders etc will be established in each community to be in-charge of the recruitment of personnel and monitor security developments in the various communities where they exist,” Umahi said. He said the governors had also resolved to improve the capacity of their various community policing security outfits and in synergy with the Nigeria police, undertake periodic security raids. He noted that the governors had agreed to share intelligence and information on security as well as provide adequate job and skill engagement for their teeming youths. According to him, there will be quarterly meeting among the governors to review the entire security situation and smooth workability of the initiative and the zone will continue to partner the police to achieve all these. However, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Nnia Nwodo, differed, saying that the law should allow Ndigbo to have their own security, to be known as ‘Ogbunigwe’. Nwodo warned that any community policing that was not under the command and control of elected leaders was dead on arrival. He urged the Federal Government to declare Fulani herdsmen, rampaging and killing people in Nigeria as a terrorist group. Nwodo appealed to the police to work hard to beef-up their trust and confidence among the people of the zone. “You must review the number of check-points in the zone, which has turned to tollgates and it is truly angering the people of the zone. “I will continue to complain on the continuous destruction of farmlands by cattle and herdsmen that move about with AK47 within farmlands within the zone,” Nwodo said. Archbishop Emmanuel Chukwuma of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province of Anglican Church, who spoke on behalf of the clergymen in the zone, urged the Federal Government to redouble its efforts to reduce insecurity especially kidnapping and farmers/herders clashes within the zone. Chukwuma also urged the police to reduce number of policemen guarding wealthy and influential people within the zone. Igwe Lawrence Agubuzu, who spoke on behalf of the South-East traditional rulers, gave assurance that the traditional rulers would “fully support” the community policing initiative. Agubuzu, who is also the chairman of Enugu State Traditional Rulers’ Council, noted that the traditional rulers would support the governors and legislators to ensure that the initiative work in each community. Earlier, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, noted that he instituted the geo-political security summits due to the increasing complexity of crime and the challenges of policing a vast and diverse country. Adamu said that the meeting would engender public trust, consent and partnership that remained the foundation upon which policing rests. “The attainment of this objective requires the adoption of citizens-driven pathways for the purposes of identifying, dissecting and prioritising security threats, and working together to evolve strategies directed at tackling these threats. This is essentially, the purpose of this summit. “The community policing model being envisioned for Nigeria under the current dispensation is one that will draw on the legal opportunities provided by the Police Act for the engagement of special Constables. “Who in this instance, will be engaged as community policing officers under the coordination of the Nigeria police toward evolving a community-focused policing architecture,” he said.