The Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC) is currently embroiled in multiple crises ranging from lingering issues of gross misconduct, misappropriation of funds, pockets of allegations and counter allegations which has led to suspension of some members of the state executives. Delta Central Vice Chairman of the party, Barr. Adelabu Ejiroghene Bodjor, spoke with newsmen on this and other issues. Excerpts: There was a call on the state Chairman, Prophet Jones Ode Erue, to step aside from his position for probing by a five-man constituted committee set up by the State Deputy Chairman on an allegation of gross misconduct and other issues raised by the State Working Committee, what is your take on this? Well, we have only one head and the head of the State Working Committee, SWC, is the Chairman of the party in the state and he is the person of Prophet Jones Ode Erue. As we all know, the Deputy Chairman can only act when he is delegated to, so, the Chairman never delegated responsibility to the Deputy Chairman, and l can tell you that all he is doing is mere display of political naivety. As you are aware, on the 18th of January, 2020, the State Working Committee, SWC, under the able leadership of Prophet Jones Erue held a meeting in which several issues were discussed and at that meeting, there was a unanimous passing of vote of no confidence on the State Deputy Chairman, State Woman Leader, the Vice Chairman, Delta South and others. And if after having received their suspension letters, the suspended persons now considered themselves as resistance group, then, they are on their own, hence, and a man that is suspended is no longer known to law and has no locus stand to now say he was setting up committee to probe the chairman of the party. Whether you call it State Working Committee or State Executive Council, SEC, nobody is authorized to call such meeting at the absence of the party state chairman, so, it is laughable for the State Deputy Chairman of the party who and others suspended to come from nowhere to say the state party chairman should step aside and face five-man probe committee, so who will they report to on their findings You are aware of the recent case between the national chairman and some members of our party in Edo state whom under suspension, took the national chairman of the party to court, they lost, because before they went to court, they have been suspended, and so have no right, so, their actions is medicine after death. They are suspended and they remain suspended. Those the Erue led exco had alleged to have been suspended in their last meeting had come up with communiqué, describing their suspension by the state Chairman illegal, null and void, do you subscribe to it? The party has a constitution and it takes a number to form a quorum to have a meeting of the State Working Committee. Invitation was extended to everybody, and as at the time we formed the quorum, the meeting commenced and decisions were taken. So nothing that we did at that the meeting that was not in line with the party, so, their claim that their suspension was illegal was mere political exercise. Like some people may ask why we suspended the State Deputy Chairman, Mr. Elvis Ayomanor, State Woman Leader, Delta South Vice Chairman and others was clearly on their resistance to attend meetings meeting when they are called, rather, they are on the course of creating parallel executive and an allegation leveled against the State Deputy Chairman over money received on behalf of the party but were not remitted, which led to his first suspension by his party members from his own local government area. There was allegation from March 2019 till date, that Prophet Jones Erue led exco never convene any meeting and has not also paid security guards and staff working at the state secretariat for about 16 months, how do react to this view? If any of them opened their mouth to say that the chairman has not called a meeting, it is pure fallacy; we have held several meetings both in Warri, Asaba and chairman’s country home. By virtue of his position as the chairman, he is very free to call meetings to anywhere at any particular time and we will all obliged to attend. He has called about three caucus meeting after the elections, so when people talk sometimes, or tell stories to make people believe that their actions is genuine, l begin to wonder, and l imagine what telling lies give to them or save them from. How do you now react to this five-man committee constituted by the state Deputy Chairman to probe the state Chairman, on allegation of misappropriation of funds and other issues raised? A suspended man has no right to call a meeting, or could a man suspended says he want to probe the state party chairman, that is to be a judge in his own case, it is not done anywhere, you cannot be a judge in your court. The Deputy Chairman that has been suspended put up a committee, where he is the head of the committee to pass judgment on who, it is laughable. Until the party finds the State Deputy Chairman and his co-travelers not guilty on allegations against them, they cannot and don’t have they claim to have powers to do. There are also allegations that the state Chairman had from 2014 till date been using the party leaders against each other and this they said has caused major setback on the party, what is your take on this? I am a foundation member in APC, l was member of APC before it was registered, so nobody can come and tell me the story of APC, some of them know little or nothing about APC, they join the party mid-way, l can confidently show you documents. Because the state chairman does not like injustice, always ensuring he plays by the rules, they just come out and say the man is not good. Several times after the man has work tirelessly for the party, they would want to push him away. That is the genesis of the whole issue and l don’t want to open any cankerworm because if it explodes they will not be comfortable. What would you now say about funds that the party has generated either through purchase of party forms or other means that have not been accounted for over time? Nobody has called for an audit and the state chairman neglected or refused to give account. The man has his record up to date. Some of them making noise borrowed money from the party and have not paid, monies running into millions, let them bring external audit and let’s see who shall be indicted. We have the secretary, treasurer and the chairman, whom are privy to the account, so does money leaves the account without these people, so you can see all they are saying is fallacy. And remember there is no subscription from anywhere in running the party, we are supposed to appreciate the chairman and the other way they are going. The forms that were sold were directly paid to the national through bank, so what do you want him to account for, the money that has been paid into the purse of the national executive, it is baffling when some persons are raising issues that are insignificant. Would anyone come out and say this is the person sponsoring the Delta State APC?