Medics in hazmat suits delivered a baby boy inside the coronavirus quarantine zone with both his parents feared to have the deadly virus. Doctors and nurses dressed in full protective gear and goggles helped to deliver the 7lb 11oz boy at Wuhan Union Hospital on Saturday. The boy’s father is a confirmed coronavirus patient and medics suspect that his mother has also been infected. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Pictures from the hospital showed the child in the arms of doctor Song Bo, who said the baby was ‘healthy and everyone is very happy’. The Wuhan hospital’s isolation unit, inside the quarantined Hubei province, is the designated national location for pregnant coronavirus patients. As a result, medics such as Song have been sent from numerous other provinces to assist with the influx of people. The doctor is usually based at the department of infectious diseases at the Fourth Hospital of Harbin Medical University in a different province, Heilongjiang. The mother, named only as Ms Gong, was transferred to the hospital from the same province last Friday. She has been held in isolation as a suspected carrier of the deadly virus, while her husband remains in quarantine after he was diagnosed. Dr Song said: ‘The patient successfully gave birth to a 7lb 11oz (3.5kg) boy. ‘The child is healthy and everyone is very happy. He’s been sent to Wuhan Children’s Hospital for further tests. ‘As a father-of-two myself, it’s been tough being on the front line day and night, but we’re all so excited to see this new life. ‘I believe we will win the fight against this disease.’ Officials say that medics are running short of protective medical equipment because of the coronavirus outbreak. Medical workers need ‘urgent supplies’ of masks, protective suits and safety goggles, foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Monday. Virus fears have prompted many in the country of 1.4billion to stock up on face masks, but China’s factories can only produce 20million of them a day at full capacity. In addition, several cities and provinces including Wuhan have made it compulsory to wear masks in public in a bid to contain the virus. The death toll from coronavirus soared past 360 on Monday, exceeding the 349 fatalities in mainland China from the 2002-03 SARS outbreak. The number of infections in China also jumped significantly on Monday, passing 17,200. Daily Mail