Director-General, National Automotive Design and Development (NADDC), Jelani Aliu has disclosed that the Federal Government in efforts to implement the Nigerian Recovery and Growth Plan (NIRP) has approved the new auto development plan with a N5 billion vehicle finance package to assist Nigerians buy new cars, repayable at agreed terms instead of the current craze of patronising fairly to transform the automotive industry and attract Investment into the sector. Aliu, who made the disclosure at the review session of the Nigerian Automotive Policy Bill, & Nigerian Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP), in Abuja at the weekend, noted that the current efforts of the Government would stop the current craze of patronising fairly-used cars by Nigerians, which have continued to drain the nation’s foreign reserves, and creating jobs for other countries. He said: “Nigerians can now put down say, 10 percent of the value of cars they wants to buy and spread payments for over five years. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “This arrangement has been concluded with some selected banks in the country with the support by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). If we go this way, our citizens will also begin to enjoy ridding new vehicles.” He, however, solicited the support of stakeholders to provide concrete recommendations that will be captured in the proposed new NAIDP bill to be forwarded to the National Assembly for passage. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, in his remarks, regretted that in 2016, automobiles and automotive components importation gulped about $8 billion, which should never be allowed any longer. He implored the participants to work in synergy and come up with better recommendations that could be put forward as concrete plan or bill to reverse the trend. In his remarks, Senator Osita Izunaso, the Chairman of the National Automotive Design and Development (NADDC), Board, advised the participants to contribute immensely and come up with relevant recommendations that could be put together as an Executive Bill that will be passed to the National Assembly. He said: “This meeting, organised by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMIT), in conjunction with the National Automotive Design and Development Council, brings together all actors in the Nigerian automotive industry, to discuss and review the efforts put in to get the Auto Policy Bill passed by the 8th National Assembly, but couldn’t get Presidential assent due to observed shortcomings.” He said NAIDP 2014-2024, was designed to ensure growth and sustained development of the auto industry in Nigeria, stressing that the plan has five critical elements aimed at addressing various challenges facing the sectors, including infrastructure development, investment promotion, standards, skills development and marked expansion. The manufacturers, which include Honda, Peugeot, Innoson, and Mitsubishi among others, have also created employment for about 4,782 Nigerians. Speaking, Director-General, National Automotive Design and Development (NADDC), Jelani Aliu, stated that Nigeria’s automobile industry received a boost with over $1billion investments from renowned auto manufacturers in 2019, thereby lifting capacity to at least 408,870 vehicles yearly. In his address, NADDC Director, Policy and Planning, Farouk Umar, listed about 12 thematic areas the proposed amendments to the NAIDP must focus on. They include, proper definitions for what constitutes Semi Knocked Down (SKD), and Completely Knocked Down (CKD) parts, the positions of all stakeholders that align with the NAIDP development and development of a basis for determining local content contribution, which will be largely based on value addition and labour fraction among others.