There was palpable suspense in the political circles of Ondo State, especially among members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday as Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu met with members of the Unity Group. The Unity Group led by former Deputy Governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, has been the main internal opposition within the APC. It serves as the rallying upon for all governorship aspirants of the party except Akeredolu. The meeting which was still in progress as at press time  was the first in the last six months and comes barely 24 hours after a private meeting with the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in Lagos. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network All the governorship aspirants on the platform of the APC except Ife Oyedele, who reportedly was not invited to the parley, attended the meeting. Also, Senate’s Deputy Leader, Robert Ajayi Borofice, was said to have boycotted the meeting as a result of his reportedly frosty relationship with Tinubu. Governor Akeredolu was accompanied to the meeting by the state chairman of the APC, Engr. Ade Adetimehin; Speaker of the State Assembly, Rt Hon Bamidele Oloyelogun; Secretary to the State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde; Finance Commissioner, Wale Akinterinwa as well as the Commissioner for Regional Integration and Special Duties, Prof Bayonile Ademodi. On the side of the Unity Group were Senator Yele Omogunwa, Hon. Isaacs Kekemeke, Engr. Segun Abraham, Ambassador Sola Iji, Alhaji Alli Olanusi, Olusola Oke, Mr. Bode Sunmonu, Dr. Paul Akintelure, Dr. Taiwo Malumi, Chief Erastus Akeju and Mr. Oredola Jacob. An inside source confided in our correspondent that the meeting was at the instance of Tinubu who had a meeting with Akeredolu till the early hours of Saturday. Former national vice chairman of the APC, Chief Pius Akinyelure who is a close confidant of the former Lagos governor was reportedly mandated to summon the leadership of the Unity Group to the meeting. Akinyelure who was said to be at the Friday night meeting between Governor Akeredolu and the APC national leader in Lagos had flown into Akure with the Governor on board same flight and went straight to the meeting at the Heritage Hotel, Ijapo, Akure. “Yes, our leaders are hiding the meeting currently because there is no permanent enemy in politics. It’s better to have an unfriendly party man as governor than a friendly man of another party as governor. It’s a game of give and take but we are yet to be told the details”, a member of the Unity Forum told our correspondent. He gave an indication that one of the conditions already tabled before Governor Akeredolu is for him to drop his estranged deputy, Agboola Ajayi for a member of the Unity Group to step in as running mate.