Abuja – Senate President Ahmad Lawan has sent out an appeal for unity to Nigerians, noting that the agitation for regionalism and provincialism would take Nigerians and their country nowhere. The Senate President said unity was important in order for Nigerians to be able to confront serious challenges as a common front. Senator Lawan spoke when he presided over the Senate’s valedictory session held in honour of the late Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu on Wednesday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said he would participate in the burial rites of the late senator, adding that he would lead the delegation to ensure that they gave him the deserved respect. Lawan said the National Assembly would remain united and focused, ensuring that the citizens got the best deal. He said: “I want to assure Nigerians that the National Assembly will remain focused for the sole purpose of ensuring that our citizens get the best deal from their legislature at this level. “We will continue to work to ensure that there is improvement on security and lives of Nigerians. We will ensure that Nigerians live where they choose to live and are protected. “We want to ensure that there is serious unity among Nigerians – the recent tendencies of going back to regionalism and provincialism will not take Nigeria anywhere. “When we have serious confrontation, we’ll face them as a united people. “Finally, I want to pray that the soul of our colleague, Benjamin Uwajumogu, rest in perfect peace, Amen.” The late Imo State born senator, who represented Imo North, died on December 18, 2019. The senators who spoke at the valedictory session at the red chamber, expressed grief over the demise of Uwajumogu, who was a former speaker of Imo State House of Assembly when Rochas Okorocha was governor of the state. Speaking, the Senate Minority Leader, Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe, said: “Sudden death is one of the things that tell us how much mortal we are. Every man’s life end in death but the most important is how man passes through life with details.” Abaribe noted that Uwajumogu affected life and was a big man with a big heart, adding that he was generous and accommodating. He said: “We will miss him. Not only his family, but Imo State and the Senate will miss him. It is how you live your life that you will make your mark. Benji made his mark.” On his part, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, described the late Uwajumogu as his compatriot in rebellion. He said: “I will choose to celebrate Big Ben. We had almost identical trajectory. We both came into the Senate after much litigation. We bonded together, we did everything together. “There is no way the history of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege will be written without the name of Ben Uwajumogu. He was my compatriot in rebellion. “When I was threatened with suspension, Senator Uwajumogu, then Senate Leader, was among those that defended me. He survived a very rugged political terrain in the South East.” The former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, said: “As the remains of Senator Uwajumogu lies outside there, some of our compatriots are already struggling to take over his seat.” He noted that in his 17 years in the Senate, he had had cause to pay tribute to many colleagues that died. He listed about 14 senators that have died during his 17 years as a senator. Senator Robert Ajayi Boroffice, described the late lawmaker as harbinger of good news for the political firmament of this country. Minority Whip, Senator Philip Aduda (FCT), said life was vanity, adding that, “life in itself is meaningless but if you plan for it, it becomes meaningful”. Senator Rochas Okorocha (Imo West) described Uwajumogu as a great leader, great politician, lover of people, one that lived his life building bridges. “Ben was the speaker for four years in my rescue mission administration in Imo State. “This is a wakeup call for all of us alive today that to every beginning there must be an end. “In death, there is no political party. It is a wakeup call to think deeply that it is not how far but how well you have lived with people,” Senator Okorocha said. The Senate offered prayers, observed a minute silence, sent condolence message, sent a delegation to be led by the Senate President before proceeding on a procession to pay the last respect to the late lawmaker. Fifteen senators, it was reported, have died between the 5th Senate and the 9th Senate. In the 5th, there were Senator Ama Iwuagwu (Imo East), Senator Joshua Adagba (Benue North-West), Senator Sule Yari Gandi (Sokoto North), and Senator Badamasi Maccido (Sokoto Central). In the 7th Senate, the senators that died were Senator Uche Chukwumerije (Abia North), Senator Pius Ewherido (Delta Central), Senator Gyang Dantong (Plateau North), and Senator Dahiru Awisu Kuta (Niger East). In the 8th Senate, the senators that died were Senator Mustapha Bukar (Katsina North), Senator Ahmed Zannah (Borno Central), Senator Isiaka Adeleke (Osun West), Senator Ali Wakili (Bauchi South), and Senator Mustapha Bukar (Katsina North). In the eight months of the 9th Senate, two senators have died: Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu (Imo North), who died in December, and Senator Ignatius Longjan (Plateau North), who died in February.