Maritime sector in Nigeria is reputed to be the second revenue generating sector for the economic development of the country after the oil sector. Yet, Nigeria Waterways are the most insecure in West Africa. This is confirmed by the International Maritime Bureau (IMB) and other bodies.  Thus, Nigeria has been adjudged as having the highest rate of pirate activities in the Gulf of Guinea. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKOR examine the implications of the unsafe waterways to the economy and otherwise of the country. The Nigeria portion in the Gulf of Guinea has cases of thefts and piracy very prevalent. In fact, between December last year and now, tanker vessels have been attacked where crew members were taken captives for ransom.  Just as we have kidnapping on the land, there are high level and well-armed kidnappers operating on the nation’s waters. This by extension have made it possible for many vessels to avoid calling at the nation’s  territorial waters, and when they call,  charges for risks coverage are extremely very high compared to other countries were incidences of criminal activities on their high seas are minimal. Lots of foreign investors, not only in the maritime sub-sector of Nigeria’s economy, shun doing businesses here as they considered Nigerian waters most unsafe. However, the Nigeria Navy has always complained about inadequacy platform as the bane of the effective manning of the waterways. This has not also helped our image as a country. As we may be aware, last year, Nigeria lost out in the Council seat for the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). Part of the reasons why some other countries did not want to vote for Nigeria in that election, was because our waters are not safe. Actual and Attempted Piracy Attacks In a report, “Nigeria- Number of actual and attempted piracy attacks 2008-2019”, published by I. Wagner, January 28, 2020, it indicated that their statistic represents the total number of actual and attempted piracy attacks in Nigerian territorial waters from 2008 to 2019. In 2019, there were 35 actual and attempted piracy attacks in Nigeria, down from 48 in 2018. The report pointed out that the waters off the Nigerian coast experienced the highest number of piracy attacks globally in 2019. Also, reports have it that the Gulf of Guinea, on West Africa’s southern coast, is the world’s most pirate-infested sea. The International Maritime Bureau (IMB) reported 72 attacks in 2018 on vessels at sea between Ivory Coast and Cameroon—up from 28 in 2014. Max Williams of Africa Risk Compliance (ARC), a security consultancy, says piracy remains chronically under-recorded. Ship-owners fear their vessels will be held up at port during an investigation. His firm estimates the real number of attacks last year was double the IMB’s figure. Elsewhere piracy is in decline. Between 2014 and 2018 the number of incidents each year in South-East Asia fell from 141 to 60, and to just three off Somalia, which in 2007-12 faced this century’s worst piracy crisis. Under-reporting is also less of a problem in these regions. The authorities in South-East Asia are more trusted; incidents off Somalia are reported to the Unlike the Somalis, West African pirates never keep the vessels, as they have nowhere to hide them. Instead, armed with ak-47s and knives, they storm a ship, round up some of the crew and return to land, where they hide their hostages. Last year, says Mr. Williams, they kidnapped 193 people. The pirates have struck across the region, but are primarily a Nigerian problem. They mostly operate out of the labyrinthine waterways in the Niger delta, near which most of West Africa’s attacks occur. Piracy is intertwined with the oil-rich delta’s myriad other problems. Unemployment is at least 20%, and banditry and oil theft on land are widespread. Cormac McGarry of Control Risks, a consultancy, says many pirates have gained experience fighting for separatist groups. These groups typically resent how much oil money is stolen by politicians in the far-off capital, and would like to steal it for their own ethnic group, or themselves. Cult-like gangs also abound in the delta, with names like the Icelanders and the Vikings. Members moonlight as pirates to make extra cash. Piracy also rises during election years, notes the IMB’s Mr Mody. Local politicians are said to pay and arm the gangs to attack rivals. Shipping firms complain that the Nigerian government is failing to keep its waters safe. Its navy often performs admirably when it intercepts pirate attacks. But it is ill-equipped and spread too thin to prevent them. Some speculate that the pirates are in cahoots with military officials, citing incidents in which pirates flee before the navy arrives or know exactly how many crew members are aboard a ship they attack. Nigeria has yet to make piracy a specific criminal offence. Pirates captured by the navy are often quietly released. Around 300 people have been prosecuted in Somalia for piracy. By contrast, the Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) says it does not know of a single prosecution in Nigeria. Some favour a Somali-style approach. BIMCO,   the largest international association representing shipowners, issued a statement calling for the EU,  America and China to deploy forces to the Gulf of Guinea sometime. Ship-owners also want to be able to deploy private armed guards in Nigerian waters. For now, Nigeria only lets them hire escort vessels staffed by naval officers. “They have turned security into a business,” grumbles one executive. Others see such demands as a non-starter. Nigeria, a democracy whose government—for all its flaws—is far less impotent than Somalia’s, is bound to resent foreign navies or mercenaries off its coast. Also, foreign governments would be reluctant to foot the bill. The Gulf of Guinea, unlike the Malacca Strait or the Gulf of Aden, is not a choke point for international trade. Mr Williams points to other constraints on the Nigerian government. Its armed forces have their hands full with a jihadist insurgency in the north-east, banditry in the north-west and clashes between farmers and herders in the “middle belt”—all of which are far deadlier than piracy. Instead, he argues, firms themselves should do more to protect their crews. International shipping organisations have drawn up recommendations, based on what worked in Somalia. They include wrapping the deck in razor wire and building a “citadel” on board where the crew can barricade themselves and call for help. Among the ships docked in Lagos many display obviously shoddy security—large gaps in the razor wire, for example, rendering it useless. Williams often finds citadels with doors that do not close; or crews with no training on what to do if attacked. Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, has assured that the Federal Government is fully prepared by perfecting strategic plans to deploy special mission aircraft to boost the activities of six armoured aircraft already in the country before the end of February to tackle headlong, the security and economic challenges facing the nation’s territorial waters. Amaechi, who gave this assurance in Lagos after a crucial meeting with Heads of Parastatal and Agencies under his ministry, said the meeting was to ensure the safety of the nation’s water become imperative as shipping communities are becoming worried over rate of insecurity on the waters, occasioned by piracy and robbery attacks, taking place on the high seas. He said: “Those who do business on the water are getting worried, but I can assure you the NIMASA is on top of it.” The Transportation Minister, who appealed to citizens to cooperate with the security operatives in the fight, emphasised that the sea criminals do not live on the water but “with us,” adding that when the onslaught against criminals terrorising the territorial waters commences, people should not misinterpret it as if the military is waging war against the South. Peterside emphasised that Nigeria is not handing over its waters to the Israelis; rather, they are to train Nigerian security personnel who would secure the waters. He disclosed that six intercession boats and six armoured vehicles have been acquired and already in Nigeria. He said that the first Helicopter is expected in the first quarter of 2020, while 80% of the required equipment would have been in Nigeria by June this year. He further disclosed that the first set of operatives have completed their training, while training for the second set would soon commence. The Director-General also disclosed that the first special mission aircraft will be in the country before the end of the first quarter of the year, while six armoured aircraft were already in the country, and the first unmanned aerial vehicle would come in before the end of February. “We expect the first helicopter in the first quarter of this year. Almost all the communication gadgets are in the country as well as the Personal Protective Gear (PPG). The C4i centre is fully operational in Kirikiri, the NIMASA Research Centre. Those are the assets we have on ground. “However, between now and June this year, over 80 per cent of the assets would be in the country and they would be manned by Nigerian military”, he said. Peterside noted that the training aspect of the project had since commenced in phases, and that the first set of training for C4i operators and intelligence officers had been concluded. Basic infantry training for soldiers who would fight on land around the littoral areas has also been concluded and the soldiers awaiting deployment, according to him. “These trainings would continue over time as we try to integrate the intelligence officers with the C4i and those operating the special mission vessels and aircraft,” Peterside added. Amaechi late last year also reiterated the federal government’s determination to rid the Nigerian territorial waters of criminalities through the Integrated Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure (ISWPI), otherwise known as the Deep Blue Project. Amaechi stated that the 853km long Nigeria coastline and the country’s location in the Gulf of Guinea made it strategic for both maritime activities and security issues. According to the minister, “The length of our coastline, our exclusive economic zone, as well as our strategic location on a major shipping route, which is the Gulf of Guinea, means that we cannot afford illegalities, such as piracy, oil theft, sea robbery, and other crimes.” “The Deep Blue Project is a conscious effort towards addressing illegality in our territorial waters and, indeed, the Gulf of Guinea,” he said. Corroborating the Minister, Peterside, said the Deep Blue Project would drastically reduce criminalities in the Gulf of Guinea. He explained that the project was multifaceted and involved the training of selected officers from the various strata of the security services and NIMASA as well as acquisition of assets to combat maritime crime. He said: “The Deep Blue Project is a multipronged approach towards tackling insecurity in our territorial waters and the entire Gulf of Guinea. What we are doing is fulfilling the training aspect of the project and this will also be complemented by acquisition of assets, such as fast intervention vessels, surveillance aircraft, and other facilities, including a command and control centre for data collection and information sharing that will aid our goals of targeted enforcement.” The NIMASA boss added, “The Deep Blue Project is geared towards building a formidable integrated surveillance and security architecture that will comprehensively combat maritime crime and criminalities in Nigeria’s waterways up to the Gulf of Guinea.” Peterside emphasised  that the agency, in collaboration with the National Assembly, was taking steps to ensure that the Antipiracy Bill was passed soon. He said NIMASA was involved in both regional and domestic collaborations to ensure that maritime crimes in the country’s waterways were reduced to a bare minimum, if not completely eliminated. Meanwhile, the International Chamber of Shipping (ICS) has called upon the international community to support Nigeria in its fight against piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, even as the global body alleged that the country is not doing enough. In a statement released at the weekend after the ICS Board meeting in London, Esben Poulsson, the Chairman of the ICS, said seafarers “have the right to operate free from the fear of kidnap or capture.” Seafarer kidnappings in the Gulf of Guinea increased by 50% in 2019 and the region accounts for 90% of reported seizures globally. The majority of these take place within Nigeria’s territorial waters. According to the ICS, pirates are “bolder and taking greater number of hostages” and that “levels of violence are high and deaths have occurred both during attacks and captivity of seafarers and military personnel”. Recall that, in early 2020 four seafarers were killed in an attack on a vessel in the Gulf of Guinea. The ICS, however, acknowledged that, Nigeria has sought to stem the problem of piracy in the region through initiatives such as the Deep Blue Project, to improve security across its coastline. While the ICS welcomes these measures, it has said the wider industry and international community needs to do more to assist. “We welcome efforts of the Nigerian Navy to respond to reported incidents of piracy by dispatching patrol boats,” Poulsson said. “However, the spike in incidents indicates in 2019 and this year has shown just how far away we are from solving this endemic issue. “The declining rate of piracy incidents elsewhere reinforces the importance of communication and coordination between vessels and authorities. “The more information national governments and relevant authorities have on piracy trends, the stronger piracy prevention efforts will be. “The shipping industry is ready and willing to work with all parties to bring an end to this endemic blight to free trade”, the statement added. The lapses in the Maritime sector suggest the awkward fact that many firms lack a financial incentive to take security more seriously in West Africa. Insurance companies offer lower premiums for ships that protect themselves. But the combined cost of insuring the ship, the cargo and the crew (for kidnapping and ransom) for a voyage to Nigeria is typically no more than the cost of half a day’s fuel. It can be cheaper not to bother with armed guards. Premiums are so low in part because Nigerian pirates, unlike those in Somalia, have priced their ransoms just right: for many companies they can be written off as a cost of doing business. That means the heaviest toll is borne by crews, most of who are from poor countries like India and the Philippines. Afusat Eke, a social worker for the Nigerian Seafarers’ Welfare Board, says sailors often suffer from anxiety, depression or post-traumatic stress disorder after being released from captivity. Companies say their growing criticism of the Nigerian government is proof that they care about their crews’ welfare (although complaining costs them nothing). Thanks to the It was recorded that in 2018, Sea pirates attacked as many as 88 vessels bound for Nigerian ports. The attacks took heavy tolls on vessels bringing goods into the country. Barr. Hassan Bello, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), confirmed this  when he paid a courtesy visit to the Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral, Ibok Ibas, in Abuja. Bello said the security threat to the nation’s waterways was affecting competitiveness of Nigerian ports, which in turn impacts negatively on the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Disclosing that shipping companies had been complaining that they had been forced to provide their own security cover while bringing goods to Nigeria, he said this was not the best as such costs incurred by the shipping companies were usually passed on the shippers leading to high costs of goods in the market. He noted that due to the high level of insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea, War Risk surcharge is being imposed on Nigeria, a development which affects the freight charged by shipping companies on goods coming to Nigeria. He said: “We have received various complaints from the shipping companies who have been forced to provide their own security to escort their vessels to port (especially at the eastern ports). In spite of their efforts, between 2017 and 2018, there have been 88 attacks in Niger Delta. For instance, 2016 to 2018, there were 10,673 vessels’ calls at the ports with gross registered tonnage of over 329 million. However, one of the major challenges in the maritime sector is (in)security.” He called on the Navy to make available a platform that is strategically located offshore with “guards transferred to each vessel and then dropped off out such that there is always armed naval security presence from about 80 nautical miles off Bonny fairway buoy, up to Onne in Rivers State.” The Shippers Council boss stated the need for the enactment of a law to deal with the challenges. According to him, “In addition to the various measures being put in place by the Navy and other relevant agencies, there was need for the Navy to support the passage of Anti-Piracy Bill into law.