Prince Uche Secondus, National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview took a swipe at the government of the All Progressives Congress (APC), describing it as the major cause of insecurity and underdevelopment in the country. He also spoke on many issues facing the country. SAM OGIDAN brings the excerpts: What is your take on the state of the nation? As we can see and observed in the last four years of the current regime, we can see that issues of good governance has been a terrible challenge for this country. What we have experienced now is direct dictatorship by the APC government. The lack of good governance in our country is the cause of the insecurity, is the cause of the underdevelopment, is the cause of the suffering of the masses and the press cannot keep quite neither will we and the other political parties keep quiet. They may try to silence us but we will resist it. As a result the economy has collapsed whichever way the government is carrying on with their propaganda. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network We can see the judgment from the international community, the Transparency International has just endorsed that this country presently is more corrupt than ever and so where are we heading to. This is a nation that is currently ruled by sentiment not by any other principles well known in good governance or well known in democratic countries and I will give you two simple examples or analogy if you like. By 1960 the country was about in terms is population, 50 – 55 million and we had three major sea ports all functional to full capacity, working day and night. In 2020, with a population of 200million people, we have only one sea port functional, so where are you going to create employment if the sea ports are not working. By 1960 too, we had one refinery that serviced the entire nation, I mean these are elementary economic so that the ordinary man can understand. We had only one refinery and it serviced the entire country. In 2020, we have three refineries and none is working. A country that produces oil now imports 100 percent refined products. It is for us to share this ideas and begin to debate, it calls for elementary economics, it has nothing to do with huge policies or professorial policy position because we have left those things we ought to have done undone and we are running from pillar to post as a nation. And if the media don’t speak out and rely on the propaganda of the current government, more people are suffering, the unemployment rate has gone to the highest in the country, the insecurity is such that you can no longer travel by road from Abuja to Kaduna, that’s a typical example, even the train is now threatened. So we are in total support if the Minority leader’ss position in the Senate that called for the President to resign because he has failed. He is overwhelmed with the security challenges and so the PDP backs the Minority leaders position that if we can’t secure lives and properties which is the first charge of any government then with honour, it is only in this black country, in the black world that people don’t like to take the right step, it is not humiliating for anyone to say, I have tried my best, I can no longer go forward let somebody else come and try. We are not calling for government to collapse but if the President can no longer assure the population of Nigerians that they are safe. And a typical example and to crown it all is that people no longer have right to vote and be safe. The woman in the Kogi election who came out, dressed up in the morning, a married woman with children went to the polling booth, voted, came back to the house was attacked by the APC thugs and burnt alive, so who is sure to come out and vote anymore. Today, that woman stands as a symbol of democracy even though she is late. And so we want to plead with our brothers, the media, those who are here and those who are outside here, media executives, owners of media houses and electronic media that unless they rise to the occasion and stand with the ordinary people, the country cannot move forward. We want to plead with you that at all times, if you remember to call us we will come. It is not only party taking position on issues but we can exchange ideas and see how best we can proffer solution for our country. We also believe that it is time for the judiciary to wake up because it is the last hope of the ordinary man and the judiciary is the conscience of democracy. Without a strong judiciary, democracy cannot stand. We believe that what has happened in the country is enough lesson for all of us to repent and render service to our people selflessly. It is time to wake up because this is a fresh beginning, January 2020. It is time for us to speak out and speak out truth not propaganda. You can deceive the people some of the time, it is a very common adage, but you cannot deceive the people all the time. You can carry on with your propaganda for long but one day, one day, the truth will come out. We are not here to join issues, but we are burdened and pained by what is going on in our country today. Without electoral reforms and amendment of our electoral laws, we can’t move forward. Look at what happened in Kogi and Bayelsa, and other elections in 2019, it is a shame. Ghana can conduct their elections without any violence and problems, Kenya the same, South Africa, other countries in Africa but Nigeria was a leading country in Africa, where are we today, what is our position. Bans are being placed on our country, travel restrictions, we are being treated anyhow, a giant of Africa is now ant of Africa. But we believe that if you all stand with us and speak the truth, we will come out of it, God will help us to come out of this problems. The Buhari Media Organisation is making mockery of your party that for 16 years in office you could not complete you party Headquarters. What is your reaction to that? It is entirely business of PDP to determine when we are ready to pack into our new secretariat. We have secretariats, we have offices and as you know, we have one at Wadata and another one at Legacy. That one is still under construction so be patient till we pack over there but we have very good offices. What is your party doing about one of our colleagues Jalingo who has been in detention traced to one of your governors in Cross River State?. You are aware that the governor of Cross River met with the President yesterday (Tuesday) and on his way out he was interviewed by your colleagues and he had to explain what happened, how water entered melon, so I refer you to the statement of the governor because we are all concerned and if it is true, a proper investigation will be carried out and I believe that what the governor said, you are aware of it. So you don’t need me to say much about that until a final decision is taken but we are concerned generally because this is a country that believe and of course it was the PDP that came out with the Freedom of Speech Act and we believe in it. Our President, Jonathan signed it and so we believe in free press and free speech. We have observed that a lot of PDP stakeholders especially the governors have shown disloyalty publicly to the party, they have no allegiance to the party has your administration lost the capacity to call them to order?. You see, democracy is fast deteriorating in our country because of the style of the federal government. As you can see, it is do or die, or winners take all, people are not patient, hunger in the land, insecurity that may be what is contributing to what you are witnessing today but our position is very clear. Even in those states not controlled by PDP, you still know that we have critical stake holders in those states who are firmly on the ground. And you know also that in 2019 election, we won in those states that are not ours and that shows clearly that we are moving forward with democratic ideals and principles but you never can tell. There may be one or two places where we may have what you just described but we believe that it will come on and off until we arrive at the right destination not just for our party but for our nation also. Where is the party going to zone 2023 presidential ticket?. Today we are more concerned in rebuilding our party. When the time comes for the nomination of a Presidential candidate the party will come out with its position. You know the Constitution allows everybody, whether you are from north, whether you are from south to contest. No one is going to stop anyone from contesting even when it is zoned to a particular region and I am talking about in the past. So every person still has a right to contest so if you are qualified and desire to run for the office of the President you are free to contest. There is rumour that your party is planning to change its name?. I am quite glad that you called it rumour and I would regard it as gossip. And everybody, every free thinker is allowed to think but we never considered name change. It has never happened and no suggestion but like you said, it is rumour and anybody can throw the rumour to his face. It is not being considered by our party at all, it is not part and parcel of our agenda for now. Is you party considering a merger? Why not? When the time comes, if there is need people to pull their resources and pull their strength together, it can happen, it is possible. Our focus is in making sure that our party is strong and virile and ready to win election. Your party is divided especially in the House of Representatives where the issue of Minority leader has divided members of your party. Will your party put its house in order as it approaches 2023 elections? I take your advice in good faith. I want to assure you that our Distinguished Senators are working hard in the Senate. Yes, we have issues in the House of Representatives and we are working hard to resolve them. And we believe that any member of PDP not necessarily those in leadership is free to voice out what is going on in government and so that is why people are working hard to reconcile those in the House of Representatives, but Senate is in order and the Senate is moving forward. There are crises in APC. What is your party doing to clinch the governorship seat in Edo state as the election is moving closer?. We are working very hard in Edo state. We met with the leadership and stakeholders of Edo state last week and I believe that our people are coming together, very strong and you are aware that the state belongs to PDP before the APC took it from us. So we are working hard to regain Edo state. Your party spent 16 years in office and the only thing it could put in place regarding electoral reforms is the card reader. Many of us believed that if your party was honest enough and not benefiting from electoral fraud, there could have been a more solid reform which could made it difficult for individuals or groups or parties to rig elections?. If you recall when PDP came into power in 1999, I want you people to rewind a little bit because we must know where we were coming from and where we are now. It took 16 years for us to carry out electoral reforms which gave us what we have and which was not implemented. First the laws were analogue. Second, there have been several reforms within the 16years and it became like rhetorics and you know part of it, part of our challenge was that the Constitution of our country must also conform with the desire of the change and reform which we proposed before we handed over in 2015. It was the PDP that equipped the INEC with all the data and with all the machine and also the transmission of result sheets electronically but when this government came, they discarded all the structures that was put in place even though the electoral law didn’t quite capture it because of the impediment of our constitution because we need also to change a major aspect of our constitution as regards to the electoral reforms and this requires everybody. When we called a few days ago for electoral reforms we are not calling only the APC, the PDP, everybody in our nation because we must move forward. Now 16 years was not a joke. I suppose you should appreciate that PDP has done very well bringing us to where we are today and it is left for those in government now to quickly do all the structures. In fact the last amendment that was done in the 8th assembly, this President, President Buhari refused to assent to that Bill to become law. Elections results can be transmitted from the voting point to the centre. The President refused to sign it, so why are you putting the blame on PDP? 8th Assembly amended the electoral laws so you don’t put that blame on the door of PDP, put it squarely on the door of APC government. They are now in government for five years running so put that on their doorstep. And we believe that if we don’t at all do the needful and reform, we cannot move forward as a nation, we can’t. So we don’t want to join issue with APC, we don’t want to join issue with anybody but what we want is electoral reform that will be good for everybody. People should have right to come and vote and not be killed and that is the right of all citizens.  