Lagos – The ongoing reconstruction, expansion and installation of airfield lighting at Akanu Ibiam International Airport (AIIA), Enugu will be completed by April, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has reiterated. The helmsman also assured that all efforts would be placed on improving the safety and security standards in the industry in 2020 Yadudu stated this over the weekend at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos on the sideline of the end of the year party organised for all members of staff of FAAN at the Lagos Airport. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to Yadudu, the contractor for the reconstruction of the airport and runway, PW, was working to time and assured that quality jobs were being carried out by the contractor. In order to ensure the contractor met the completion date, Yadudu disclosed that the management set up a FAAN Project Team, which he said had consistently monitored the progress. Yadudu also lauded the State Government for the supports received so far. He said: ‘The project is going on very well because we have a project team that is working with us. Then, the FAAN project team is always on site. Also, a team from the headquarters regularly visits the site. ‘Also, there is a project team on ground and of course, the consultant. Most importantly, our host government has been wonderful. ‘The completion date is very visible. We intend to finish as scheduled.’’ The airport was shutdown in August 2018 and N10bn was subsequently approved for its reconstruction, expansion and installation of airfield lighting at the airport. On closure, the government had assured that the airport would be reopened before Easter break, which is in April. Speaking on the achievements of the agency in 2019, Yadudu explained that it achieved 100 per cent of its target, even though he agreed the agency was still faced with some challenges. He however said that all the plans and developments to surmount the challenges were already put in place  by the management. On the end of the year party, Yadudu said the management put it together to further boost unity among the workers in the agency. Also speaking, Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba, the Regional General Manager, South West Airports, said that the party brought all the staff of the agency at the Lagos airport under one umbrella. According to her, Lagos Airport recorded unprecedented 7.3 million passengers and 36,273 aircraft movement in 2019, adding that cargo movement was also enhanced within the period. She added: ‘’The success recorded in 2019 belonged to everyone. No one would have done it all alone. At Lagos Airport, we have 1,698 staff who are working daily to increase the ambiance of the terminal for users despite the challenge of its 40 years old. ‘’We have had some issues with security in 2019, but we are working assiduously to curtail them. On safety, we had no issues or accidents in 2019 and we want to build on that in 2020. The highlight of the event was the presentation of gifts and certificates to all staff from different each department who distinguished themselves in the out-gone year. There was also cutting of the cake, which was led by Yadudu, directors, general managers and other key management staff in the agency.