On January 28, 2020, the
House of Representa­tives commenced full plenary session having resumed a day
before and ad­journed proceedings in honour of a deceased colleague. As
customary in the practice of the House, the presiding officer and Speaker, Femi
Gbajabiamila, addressed his colleagues with an unusual admonition, albeit
underscoring the importance of their responsibilities to self, family, friends
and the nation as a whole, just as he enjoined them to redou­ble their efforts
towards delivering society that’s capable of catering for its ever growing
population. Welcoming
the members from their Christmas and new year break, the Speaker, while acknowl­edging
the progress so far recorded within the first two quarters said: “Though
the House has not been in session these past few weeks, I am aware that for
many of us, the work has never stopped and the obligations we hold have not
been any less demanding. Still, I hope that you have taken time to rest, to
recover and to prepare yourselves for the responsibilities that will continue
to demand our time, our abilities and our continued efforts. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “My
dear colleagues, this 9th House of Representatives has in its very short
lifetime suffered the loss of too many of our members. I am deeply troubled by
this devel­opment. Yes, it is God who gives life and it is God who takes life.
We will not question the decisions of our maker. Nonetheless, allow me to say
once more as I have said be­fore in this chamber that faithful execution of the
responsibilities of our office requires of us that we pay close attention to
our personal health. “This
is still very true. Beyond the obligations of our office, we have other
responsibilities as fa­thers and mothers, brothers and sisters, sons and daughters
that require us to take matters of our personal health with the utmost care.
Let us never lose sight of this fact. And may God guide, protect and keep us
all in good health and good fortune. “Upon
the inauguration of this 9th House of Representatives in June 2019, we hit the
ground run­ning, working with the executive, and engaging the citizens of our
country to discover and present solutions to the problems of our country. Some
of our efforts have already yielded positive results in certain regards and I
am hope­ful that we will continue in this new year to meet and exceed the
standards that we have set for our­selves. “For the first time since
1999, we have a budget passed by the legis­lature and signed into law before
the start of a new financial year. I commend and thank all the mem­bers of this
House for your efforts towards achieving early passage of the Appropriation Act
2020 and the Finance Act, both of which have now been signed into law by His
Excellency, President Muhamma­du Buhari. “Honourable colleagues,
passing the budget into law is merely the beginning. We now have a duty to
ensure faithful compliance with the letter and spirit of the law by the
ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government. We will
carry out this responsibility and we will do so with integrity, taking pains to
ensure that we leave no room for neither friends nor foes to find fault with
our words or deeds. “That Appropriation Act re­flects
the priorities of this gov­ernment. These priorities are the same today as they
have always been; to develop public infrastruc­ture to meet the needs of a
rapidly growing population, to facilitate investment in new and existing
industries; to provide educational opportunities for all our people, and build
an economy that allows every citizen to achieve their just ambitions. “Our role
as legislators is to en­sure that the agencies responsible for implementing
this budget main­tain fidelity to these priorities. We will not be afraid to
hold people’s feet to the fire where necessary. Where it is required of us that
we act to review and update legisla­tion, we will do so too. We will not act
alone; we will not be arbitrary in our interventions. We will seek
collaboration as a matter, of course, so that our interventions do not ex­acerbate
existing problems or cre­ate new ones”, the Speaker pointed out.