Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie As long as human existence and relationship is concerned, nothing is as powerful as sharing. A tree cannot make a forest. No one is an island. In the history of humanity nobody has ever survived alone and nobody will ever survive without sharing. Even if you don’t believe in the power of sharing, you must at least know that you are a product of sharing – a man and a woman came together before you became a living being. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Sharing is therefore,, an indispensable aspect of human existence. The more we share with our fellow human beings, the more human we become. Sharing has a lot to do with Business advert. The Longman dictionary defines Advertisement as a picture, set of words, or a short film, which is intended to persuade people to buy a product or use a service. Advertisement is meant to give information about a job that is available, or an event that is going to happen.  An advert is also an announcement online, in a newspaper, on television, or on a poster about something such as a product, event, or job. We advertise to our fellow human beings. We cannot advertise without human beings. human beings are the target of our adverts. Sharing is the essence of advertisement. There is no advertisement without sharing. In an advert one is expected to share ideas or vital information about his or her product and service. People often produce handbills and in most cases these handbills are shared freely in order to create awareness. Without advert or such sharing the product or services cannot be recognised or patronised. Without much advert and awareness new products can hardly sale. Besides, Advertisement helps the customers to know about the existence of various products and their prices. In today’s first reading, the Prophet Isaiah 58:6-9 presents sharing as a divine mandate. The Lord God declares,   “Is this not the fast that I have chosen: To loose the bonds of wickedness, To undo the heavy burdens, To let the oppressed go free, And that you break every yoke?  Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, And that you bring to your house the poor who are cast out; When you see the naked, that you cover him, And not hide yourself from your own flesh?” Sharing is more valuable and more acceptable to God than fasting. In fact, it is the essence of fasting. We cannot fast without sharing for Fasting without sharing is starvation. Sharing is more rewarding than gold. As you share your bread with the hungry, the Lord God declares through the prophet Isaiah, “Then your light shall break forth like the morning, Your healing shall spring forth speedily, And your righteousness shall go before you; The glory of the LORD shall be your rear guard.  Then you shall call, and the LORD will answer; You shall cry, and He will say, ‘Here I am.’ (Isaiah 58:8-9). Imagine what sharing has done and will continue to do for people! Sharing is a practical form of advert. Through sharing, your light will not only shine, your business will flourish. You will become so popular that those who do not know you will get to know you better. More customers will locate you. They will come from far and near to patronise your products and services. As the passage rightly declares, through sharing your healing is also guaranteed. God’s glory will shine upon you. And the Lord will always answer your prayers. Sharing is the essence of generosity. A generous man is one who shares whatever he has with others. In Psalm 112, the psalmist declares, “Blessed is the man who fears the LORD, Who delights greatly in His commandments.  His descendants will be mighty on earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. Wealth and riches will be in his house, And his righteousness endures forever…  Open-handed He gives to the poor; His righteousness endures forever; His horn will be exalted with honor.” A generous man is indeed a blessed man. Givers never lack! The more you share the more you receive. The early Christians succeeded because they embraced sharing as the essence of their fellowship. According to Acts 2:44-47,  “All who believed were together, and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all, as anyone had need.  So continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart,  praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved.” Sharing was the secret of their success. The more they shared with one another the more they increased in number and in faith. The early Church even used the principle of sharing to solve the perennial problem of poverty. According to Act 4:32-35 “The multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul; neither did anyone say that any of the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. And with great power the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. Nor was there anyone among them who lacked; for all who were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold,  and laid them at the apostles’ feet; and they distributed to each as anyone had need.” A community where no one lack is a poverty-free community. That was exactly the case in the early Church. The modern Christian communities started recording poverty among their members the moment they stopped sharing. A Poor community can be defined as a community where there is no fraternal sharing whereas a rich community is a community where people share with one another. God is ever pleased with sharing. The book of Hebrews 13:15-16 declares, “Therefore by Him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to His name.  But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.” God is not just pleased with those who share He also rewards them with eternal life. And He ensures that givers never lack. Sharing is a heavenly requirement. As John the Baptist was preparing the people for the coming of the Messiah and the inauguration of God’s kingdom, in the gospel of Luke 3:10-11 “the people asked him, saying, “What shall we do then?”  He answered and said to them, “He who has two tunics, let him give to him who has none; and he who has food, let him do likewise.” It all boils down to sharing! If you truly want to make heaven and if you really want to please God then you must be ready to share. Your Good Work and Generosity will Bring Glory to God. In the gospel of Matthew 5:14-16 our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven.” sharing is the act of shinning! People can only see your good works through advert and sharing. Without sharing nobody will ever know that there is something good in you. Besides, as our Lord Jesus Christ rightly declares, your good work, you’re sharing and your generosity will surely bring glory to God. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!