PORT HARCOURT  – The police in Rivers State are battling to save their image from alleged extra judicial killing by torture and unlaw­ful detention. This is because, the Magistrate Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Wednesday struck out crimi­nal charges instituted against four auto mechanics in Ikoku spare parts market of the city, who have been under deten­tion at the Nigerian Correc­tional Service. Crime Tracker investiga­tions
reveal that the arrest of the four mechanics who were subsequently arraigned in
court by the police, culmi­nated from the death of their colleague, Chima
Ikwunado. He allegedly died in police cus­tody in December, 2019. Alarming Police alleged extra
judicial killings, have prompted the House of Repre­sentatives to summon the In­spector-General
of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu and the Di­rector-General of Civil Defence
Corpse to appear before it. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The trial Chief Magistrate,
Justice Amadi Nna Amadi, also discharged and acquitted the four suspects
following the report of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), which
exonerated the accused persons of any wrong doing. Amadi ruled that the DPP report
revealed that the charges against the Ikoku four suspects by the po­lice were
unfounded and should therefore not have come up in the first place. The DPP, Ibiene Mbano, in an
interview shortly after the verdict, disclosed that the charges against the
suspects were mere suspicion, “the charges against the suspects were based
on suspicion and there are unfounded. It is not a matter that we would be able
to prosecute. “As a result of that, we
have decid­ed to discharge it in our legal advice. That is the position of the
prosecu­tion”, she stated. Counsel for the accused
persons, Morrison Opue, who also spoke with newsmen, said, the defendants were
left with options to either sue the po­lice, or the officers that inflicted the
injuries on them, for fundamental human rights violation. “The defendants popularly
known as the ‘Ikoku four’, were to­day (Wednesday) discharged by the court.
Reason being that the DPP’s advice exonerated all of them. It shows that, the
offence in which they were charged were never committed by them. “The police just
brutalized them. And today, justice has taken its cause. A Daniel has come to
judgment. I want to say that no evil deeds can go unpunished. If not redressed
by man today, it would be redressed by God tomorrow”, he expressed. It would be recalled that the
four accused persons, who were arrest­ed alongside late Chima Ikwuna­do, were
earlier arraigned before a Magistrate court, which later de­clined jurisdiction
and subsequently referred the case file to the DPP for legal advice. Late Ikwunado and the four
freed persons were arrested late Decem­ber, 2019 by operatives of Eagle Crack
Unit of Mile 1 Police Division, Port Harcourt. Ikwunado reportedly died in
Police custody of injuries allegedly inflicted on him by the operatives. Since
the death of Ikwunado, who was an auto mechanic at Ikoku mechanic village,
there has been public outcry and protest by their colleagues, demanding that
justice be done in the matter. It was on that note that
business activities on Wednesday was shut down at the Ikoku spare parts mar­ket
in Port Harcourt, as mechan­ics, spare parts dealers closed their shops in
protest of police contin­ued detention of their colleague’s corpse, Chima
Ikwunado who died in police detention, following al­leged torture. They demanded the unconditional release of Chima’s corpse and
four of his friends who were arrested with him on December 19, 2019 and were
unlawfully detained in police correc­tional center till the day of the
sit-at-home protest. The artisans defended that their move was aimed at draw­ing
attention of the police hierarchy, government and the international community
into the matter. Speaking on the peaceful protest at Ikoku, Chief Wanton Arebele,
Chair­man, Ikoku Traders Association, ITA, said, “we are demanding that the
police do the needful and release the corpse of Chima Ikwunado to his family
and the judiciary should fast track the unconditional release of the four
others arrested with him, as well as 21 others arrested in relation to this
matter be discharged and acquitted. That is why we are calling on all our
members to comply in shutting their shops and stay at home, so that gov­ernment
will not arrest us as we are now a liability to them. “We are also asking that the four others that were arrested
with Chi­ma be released as well as 21of our people that were arrested in the
course of making these demands that we are trying to actualize today lawfully.
We don’t care the money that we stand to lose today, because what we are
talking about is some­one who was gruesomely murdered and it could be
anybody.” Earlier in the week, Wife of the slain Chima Ikwunado, Mrs.
Adaugo had cried out to the Rivers State po­lice command to produce the corpse
of her late husband who was alleged­ly tortured to dead by the police, for a
proper burial. Adaugo faulted the allegations by the police that her late
husband died in detention as a result of high level of sugar, saying that
before they got married last year, “we did HIV, sugar level and some other
tests. My husband was never sick. He never went to the hospital on grounds of
any sickness. Police are lying. I want them to give me my husband’s dead body”,
she cried out. “The police tortured my husband in their cell. Since
December 10, 2019, I have not seen my husband. It was on January 5th that my
father in- law called to tell me in the village that my husband is dead. I have
no father, I am an orphan. I don’t have money and I don’t know what to do with
my unborn baby. I want them (police) to produce my husband’s corpse so that I
can bury him”, Adaugo said amidst tears at a world press conference in
Port Harcourt. On whether the late Chima was a cultist as alleged by the
Police, Adaugo who is heavily pregnant responded in the contrary. “I knew
my husband two months before we got married. He was not a bad person. He didn’t
have bad friends. He has nev­er stayed late night since we got mar­ried. God
will judge this matter for me. I don’t have anybody but God will judge this
matter for me”, she lamented crying profusely. Meanwhile, pres­sure from the coali­tion of civil society
organizations in the state increased on Monday as they called on the United
States Embassy, Eu­ropean Union, Unit­ed Arab Emirates to intervene in the
suspicious death of the mechanic. The coalition also urged the Amnesty International and
globalrightsgroupsto initiate actions in the international criminal court, ICC,
againstany police officer involved in the gruesome tor­ture and eventual dead
of late Chima. President of the Rivers Civil Society Organization in the state,
Comrade Enefaa Georgewill at a world press conference called on the National Assembly
not to allow the death of late Chima Ikwunado to be swept under the carpet
without prop­er investigation. George alleged that there are torture chambers
used to forcefully extract information from suspects in the state. In its prayers, the coalition called on thes state Governor,
Nyesom Wike “to wade into the matter and direct the Attorney General of
the state to cause those boys in detention to be freed and the Commissioner for
Health made to ensure they are given the best medical treatment money can
provide. “The governor should also direct the Attorney General to
call for an inquest into the circumstances that led to the death of Chima
Ikwuna­do”, it said. In the same vein, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Rivers State equally
called on the relevant authorities to ensure that justice was done for the grue­some
murder of late Chima and en­sure that the four boys in police cell were
released without further delay. Spokesman of
Ohanaeze in the state, Maxi Felix Onwuma said “in our meeting last
Thursday, we plead­ed with the Ikoku boys to calm down and refrain from further
protest.”