LAGOS – Musa Ahmed Kida, President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), will foot the bill of the new D’Tigers coach, Mike Brown, appointed on Wednesday to lead D’Tigers to the Tokyo Olympics later in the year. This fact was gleaned from a top federation member, who would not want to be named. The source added that the president went about the employment of the coach secretly. According to the source, the president went about the business of securing the services of the National Basketball Association (NBA) franchise, the Golden State Warriors Associate Head Coach, because of his desire to get D’Tigers perform optimally at the Olympics. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Kida when contacted simply answered, “Who pays the coach or how much he will earn does not really matter. What is important is that the coach is excited to work with Nigeria. What is important is that the players are also excited at working with such a high caliber coach. “Several of the Nigerian players playing in the NBA will be ready to work with him. As for me this is what really matter,” he said. Speaking to the media on Wednesday, Kida elaborated their decision to go for Brown. “He also has a very (impressive) CV in terms of coaching basketball around the world. His 12-0 record as an acting head coach in 2016 was also one of the reasons the (Golden State) Warriors won the title.” Meanwhile, Mike Brown said in a statement that, “he is honoured and humbled that Musa Kida and the Nigerian Basketball Federation have given me this opportunity. “The Nigerian Basketball Federation has been very professional and organized throughout the vetting process. They want to continue to build a world-class team and organization on and off the court. I’m excited to have learned that the Federation’s vision is to provide the team with the necessary resources to compete at the highest level. Their commitment will enable the players and coaches to focus our energy on competing at the highest possible level every time we step on the basketball court. We want to make all of Nigeria proud.” Mike Brown has been around the association since 1997, working as an assistant coach for the Washington Wizards, San Antonio Spurs, and Indiana Pacers. He got his big break eight years later, serving as the head coach for the LeBron James-led Cleveland Cavaliers from 2005-2010. Brown also coached the Los Angeles Lakers for one season in 2011-12 and had a second stint with the Cavs in 2013-14. Moreover, Brown said that the Nigerian Federation leadership team assured him that they will put the team in the best possible position to succeed in Tokyo. He will handle a team bannered by NBA players Al-Farouq Aminu of the Orlando Magic and Josh Okogie of the Minnesota Timberwolves.