ABUJA – Industrial Training Fund (ITF) yesterday announced that it had trained over 200,000 Nigerians across the country with skills for employability and entrepreneurship under its National Industrial Skills Development Programme (NISDP). Mr. Joseph Ari, Director General/ Chief Executive Officer of ITF, who stated this in Abuja on the occasion of the graduation ceremony and the distribution of start-up packs to beneficiaries of the 2019 NISDP, said the training of the beneficiaries lasted for three to six months, depending on the trade. Ari explained that NISDP was one of the numerous skills acquisition intervention programmes introduced and implemented by the ITF to facilitate the realisation of the Federal Government’s policy on job creation and wealth generation. He noted that the programme, “focuses on skills acquisition to create jobs to stem rampant unemployment and breed a new generation of entrepreneurs in order to transform Nigeria’s economy.” He revealed that the beneficiaries, who are mostly youths, have been equipped with skills in nine trades namely shoe and bag making, welding and fabrication, catering and event management, tilling, production and laying of interlocks tiles, furniture making, domestic electricity wiring and installation, solar energy installation, plumbing and pipefitting and autogelle and beauty care. He noted that the training in these various trades was more of practical than theory. According to Ari, “We believe that given the intensity and the very practical nature of the training, which was 80per cent practical and 20per cent theory, they were equipped with the necessary skills and attitudes for them to thrive as employers or entrepreneurs. “Our Commitment to skills acquisition is premised on the fact that it remains the most viable and sustainable solution to rising unemployment and poverty that have continued to defy the best efforts of government and non-governmental approaches. “There is no doubt that unemployment has wrought a terrible damage on all facets of our national life. No reasonable analysis will divorce unemployment from the needless incidents of violence that have claimed thousands of lives across the country. “It will equally be difficult to separate rising criminality and harmful social vices that are being perpetrated by Nigerians because of unemployment and its attendant poverty.” He warned that “Our population that ordinarily should be a resource may become an albatross, if we cannot provide a greater population with a source of livelihood.” To this end, the Director General of ITF, called on state governments, organised private sector, non-governmental organisations, faith-based organisations, politicians and well-meaning Nigerians to join hands with ITF to train the unemployed with requisite skills and entrepreneurship. Also speaking, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, explained that in tackling youth unemployment, that the Federal Government was building mechanisms and institutionised processes, especially in the informal sector, that would give the youth assurances that their energy and dynamism should be invested in making Nigeria a productive nation.