LAGOS – The day was Monday February 10, 2020. That day, foremost activists held the 14th annual memorial for the late human rights icon, Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti, former Chairman of Campaign for Democracy (CD), one of the nation’s human rights bodies. Beko, a medical doctor cum rights activist, and one of the sons of the late Rev Ransome and Funmilayo Kuti, died 14 years ago. Among the groups that staged activities to honour the late human rights icon, was the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), Beko Rights Klub (BRK), Child Help In Legal Defence of Rights To Education In Nigeria (C.H.I.L.D.R.E.N), Peoples Action for Democracy (PAD) and Women Arise, led by Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Comrade Debo Adeniran, CACOL’s Executive Chairman, led his group of activists as well as the Beko Rights Klub (BRK), Child Help In Legal Defence of Rights To Education In Nigeria (C.H.I.L.D.R.E.N) and the Peoples Action for Democracy (PAD) on a procession from Obalende Roundabout to the graveside of the late rights activist at Ikoyi Cemetery to pay their respects. However, there was a mild drama at the Obalende Roundabout, when a detachment of policemen attempted to stop the peaceful procession of the activists to Beko Ransome-Kuti’s graveside, declaring that their action was illegal. However, as temper arose, and following an appeal by Comrade Adeniran, who insisted that what they were embarking on was not illegal as people have right to assembly, adding that they were only honouring a late Nigerian hero. However, the procession was allowed to take off at last. The activists, singing solidarity songs, marched to the graveside at the Ikoyi Cemetery, where they laid a wreath at the tomb of Ransome-Kuti. After that, the activists drove in a convoy to Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti Memorial Garden at Anthony Village, Lagos, where they paid more tributes in honour of their fallen hero. The CACOL boss, who led the procession to Ransome-Kuti’s graveside, in his speech, stressed that 14 years after Ransome-Kuti’s death, that nation’s ills the human rights icon fought for, still festered. He lamented the state of insecurity, expressing surprise that the Federal Government and its security agencies, had failed to protect lives and properties of the people. Adeniran maintained that the rights activists fought for improved life and the rights of Nigerians and died in the process, lamenting that 14 years after, there had not been remarkable change in the way the nation had been run. Speaking on the theme, ‘Fulfilled Promises: Lapses And Gaps’, Adeniran stated: “Today, Nigerians sleep with their two eyes wide open as the security situation gives cause for concern with the menace of Boko Haram, ISWAP, herdsmen killings, kidnapping and banditry across the country, taking their heavy toll on innocent Nigerians with no region spared from the attendant loss of lives and general state of despair. “These naturally have led to spontaneous creation of regional outlets of defence like the Amotekun in the South West, calls for the resuscitation of Bakassi Boys in the South East and Shege-Ka-Fasa in the North to curtail kidnapping and banditry. “The gap between the rich and the poor keeps widening without concrete steps being taken by the government to amend the grossly imbalance and socio-economic equation, even though Chapter 2 of the Nigerian constitution stipulates that the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government.” Adeniran stressed that the constitution required the government to harness the resources of the nation and promote national prosperity and an efficient, dynamic and self-reliant economy, control the national economy in such a manner as to secure the maximum welfare, freedom and happiness of every citizen on the basis of social justice and equality o status and opportunity. “However, the reality today is that socio-economic rights, rights to housing, education, health services, etc, which are core components of democracy were glaringly neglected on the altar of non-justiciability.” Adeniran tackled the Lagos State government, which he said prided itself as ‘Centre of Excellence’, but backtracked on the provisions of its 2012 Lagos State Road Traffic Law that allowed bikes and tricycles with engine capacities above 200cc to ply major highways and other roads in the state. “The singsong now is that their Lagos was never designed for ‘okada and tricycles’ and none of their master plan in future could accommodate such modes of transportation. But, by backsliding on their own law and restricting operations of same okada and tricycles to 15 local governments and council development areas out of 52 LGs/LCDAs, they have raised more questions than answers provided, and in actual fact, they clearly contradicted themselves in their affirmations.” He maintained that the new Lagos State policy had led to loss of billions of naira investments of citizens in the tricycles and motorcycles, saying the policy lacked due diligence and was detrimental to the comfort and relief of the same populace the government claimed to serve. Adeniran, who stressed that socio-economic rights are non-negotiable, stated that the rights of all Nigerians to work and be well renumerated must be recogised as well as the right to be well sheltered, through the housing for all policy. While Adeniran and his group were at the Ikoyi Cemetery, Women Arise, led by Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, stormed the Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti Memorial Garden at Anthony Village. Okei-Odumakin came with several pro-democracy activists like Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu (rtd), Chairman of NADECO; Dr. Femi Aborishade, pioneer General Secretary of the National Conscience Party (NCP). Okei-Odumakin, in her speech, lamented the state of insecurity in the nation, even as they called on the Federal Government to protect lives of the people. Speaking on the theme: ‘Beko 14 years after: #SecureNigeriaEndTerror#, Okei-Odumakin, described Beko as a consistent fighter, defender of the cheated and an ardent critic of all forms of oppression. Okei-Odumakin said the activist left an indelible mark on Nigeria social and political landscape through his doggedness and uncommon commitment to the fight for freedom and justice. “His numerous battles against irresponsible leadership, both military and civilian, earned him a special place among profiles of democratic and human rights defence. “Beko was a worthy ambassador of freedom, who stood for the masses against the violation of human rights and the rule of law,” she said. Okei-Odumakin called concerted efforts to create an enabling environment for the security of lives and property of all Nigerians, urging the government to do all within its power to put an end to terrorism. Dr Femi Aborishade said that Ransome-Kuti laid down his life for the freedom of the masses, even as he condemned the de-registration of 74 political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), saying the action was anti-democratic, meant to exclude people from participating and exercising their civic right. According to him, “this is not what democracy is all about. We call for the implementation of Section 225a of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” Mr Rasak Oladosu, Director, Grassroots Democratic Initiative, said it was time for Nigerians to re-assert themselves. “Ransome-Kuti was a great icon who fought for the poor masses; therefore, we should rededicate our lives to better Nigeria. “We shall continue with the struggle to campaign for the democracy in Nigeria,” he said. Mr Femi Lawson, Secretary General, Nigerians Unite Against Terror, called on government to be responsible for welfare and security of lives and properties of the citizenry. “We call on the Federal Government to restructure the security architecture of the country. We demand a change of security chiefs with fresh ideas to better secure the country; this will bring about less colossal loss of lives and property. Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu (rtd), called on Nigerians to live in unity and make Nigeria a great country, saying that everybody, irrespective of religion or ethnic differences, must come together and build a great Nigeria. The scion of Ransome-Kuti family, Dr Dotun Ransome-Kuti, commended members of the civil society for deeming it fit to remember his father and other heroes of the land. He appealed to government and Nigerians to continue to immortalise the patriots who fought for the country.