KANO  – Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State, on Wednesday, described the current proliferation of regional security outfit as a security risk to conventional policing in the country. Ganduje in a veil reference to Amotekun and Shege Kafasa said, “How can you bring forth something and at the end of the day, the same thing becomes a security threat to the people and society? So we don’t want what will metamorphose to another security challenge.” A Press statement by Malam Abba Anwar, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor made available to newsmen in Kano quoted his principal, saying that Kano does not need any separate security outfit, apart from the regular ones recognised by the Law. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ganduje, who spoke when the new Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone One, AIG Sadiq Abubakar Bello paid him a courtesy visit, explained “We do not intend to come forth with any security outfit. People who are not trained and who do not even understand how security works. You just cannot give what you like to people in the name of security outfit. Just like that.” Ganduje added, “The Hisbah we have in place is working all in synergy with the Police. They are being guided by Police and other security agents, as the case may be. We don’t see them as separate security entity. They, like any other individual, help security agents to work very well.” Governor Ganduje added “With the good synergy and good working relationship among all our security agencies, coupled with Allah’s Guidance and Blessing, Kano is now the most peaceful state in the federation. Your coming to me shows that you mean business in securing your area of jurisdiction. That is Kano, Katsina and Jigawa states.” The statement noted that Ganduje’s new confidence on the way security agencies conduct their professional role in the state gave him “more encouragement to understand that, with the harmonious working relationship among all the security agencies, society would be more secure.” Ganduje explained that there was no rivalry among the security agencies in the state, adding “they work together with a common purpose in all fronts. They all involved in the security management of the state. We are always using our Control Centre to look at and fish out black spots.”