An Israeli soldier was lightly wounded in a drive-by shooting in Israel’s Benjamin region on Thursday, in the third terrorist attack in the country in fewer than 24 hours. The soldier was reportedly manning a guard post at a junction in the area, not far from Jerusalem, when he was hit. According to first responders, the soldier remained fully conscious and was treated at the scene. The attack comes just hours after a Border Police officer sustained light injuries in a shooting attack in Jerusalem’s Old City, not far from the Temple Mount. The assailant was killed by security forces on the scene. The officer was evacuated to the city’s Shaare Zedek Medical Center, according to police. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The incident followed another terrorist attack in the capital early Thursday morning, in which 14 soldiers were wounded, one seriously, in a vehicular assault. According to police, the soldiers were walking down the street when the driver apparently came up behind them, sped up and plowed into the group. He then fled the scene. Military and police forces have launched a manhunt for the terrorist, whose car was found abandoned near the West Bank city of Bethlehem. JNS is more than just another news website and syndication service. It is an organization devoted to nonstop reporting, and telling the truth about Israel and Jewish issues unburdened by the biases and institutional blinders that distort so much of what we read, hear and see about these topics elsewhere in the secular and even Jewish press. At JNS, you get the facts about Israel and Jewish issues without the bias that so often tilts the argument against the Jewish state. JNS articles and columns are republished every week by digital outlets and print newspapers across the globe. But in the age of round-the-clock news coverage, advertising and syndication revenues are not enough to support our continued growth. We need your financial help to keep JNS on target as we continue our fair and accurate reporting. Please help us take JNS to the next level with a tax-deductible sponsorship, either on a recurring monthly basis. Jewish News Syndicate is a 501(c)3 not-for-profit organization. 