The Chinese military surgeon who exposed the government’s cover-up of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) epidemic in 2003 has been placed under de facto house arrest since last year, according to his friends and family. The fate of 88-year-old Dr. Jiang Yanyong, a retired general in the People’s Liberation Army, has been brought under the spotlight after a whistleblower doctor, Li Wenliang, who exposed the coronavirus epidemic, died last Friday at the age of 34. Jiang has had his contacts with the outside world cut off and his movements restricted since April last year after he wrote to the top leadership asking for a reassessment of the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy movement, said a close friend, on condition of anonymity. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network His wife, Hua Zhongwei, confirmed he is currently confined to his home. “He is not allowed to be in contact with people outside. He is at home. He has no means of communication [with outside],” she said. “His health is not good. He is not in a good mental state either. He is not very well.” She said he suffered from pneumonia and was treated in hospital last year. “I am sorry, it is not convenient to say more,” she said. Jiang was treated in 301 military hospitals in Beijing – the hospital where he served for more than 60 years – from April last year for more than a month, but was guarded under heavy security and banned from being visited by his family at the time, his friend said. The doctor became agitated and was given medication, which has led to severe memory loss, the friend said. Jiang has pleaded more than once with the authorities to reappraise the Tiananmen pro-democracy movement, which was brutally suppressed 31 years ago. It remains one of the most politically sensitive issues in China. The elderly Chinese surgeon became a national hero by exposing the government’s cover-up of the Sars epidemic in 2003, but was detained and forced to undergo “brainwashing sessions” after he called on the government to acknowledge that the 1989 student movement was a “patriotic movement”. 