LAGOS – The second edition of the Event Xperience Africa (TEXA2020) convened by Funke Bucknor-Obruthe, one of the pioneers of the Nigerian event industry, ended in Lagos with a charge for young entrepreneurs to embrace professionalism, creativity, and effective collaboration. The three-day conference that was tagged ‘Rev up, Build, Grow, Thrive’, was organised with the aims of helping businesses understand and implement the right structures required to grow in the events industry. It had, in conjunction with Bucknor-Obruthe, Mo Abudu, Chief Executive Officer of Ebonylife TV; Mai Atafo, Creative Director, Atafo; Steve Harris, Business Coach; Edi Lawani, Ceci Johnson, Osayi Alile, Chukwuka Monye and others to engage the young entrepreneurs. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It featured panel sessions, curated classes, networking sessions with different speakers on topics such as the business of events management, leveraging technology in the event industry, hospitality, experiential events production, the craft of event photography and videography and more. It attracted delegates and event industry personalities from across Africa and the United States in attendance. Mo Abudu during her opening speech encouraged entrepreneurs to have big dreams for themselves and their businesses. Also, the audience were engaged and had their horizon broadened through panel discussions and presentations from various industry experts like Maria Pamela Nwonu of Nwando Signatures; Izobe Spiff, Do2tun; Ini Abimbola; Owen Omogiafo, Onye Ubanatu, Kunmi Ariyo, Yewande Rwang-Dung and Sister Kemi, co-founders of Sara O Events), Jimi Tewe, and Sola Oyebade. The over 700 delegates were also blessed with deeper knowledge in the essence of branding and the importance of selling one’s value to customers. This was done in a session themed ‘Branding, Sales and Marketing, Sell your Value’ discussed by industry experts such as Mai Atafo, Adaora Mbelu, Bukky Akomolafe, Steve Harris, and Ayodotun Akinfenwa. The conference was capped with topics focused on human resources, technology, and lot of more.