Minna – Niger State is one of the few states, including Kaduna, Plateau and Kogi States in the news lately, not for rare achievements or developmental breakthroughs but for being in the throes of armed bandits or grappling with security challenges causing untimely deaths of hundreds of innocent citizens, and as well destructing their entire life earnings. Coincidentally, all the states are within the Middle Belt (North Central) region. Niger State in particular is the most affected in recent times causing sleepless nights to the citizenry according to the state governor, Alhaji Abubarkar Sani Bello, who a fortnight ago enumerated some difficulties in getting rid of the criminal elements who have so far overrun four local government councils namely; Rafi, Munya, Shiroro and Mariga. Governor Bello in company of security Chiefs in Niger State, said the task of putting up measures to liberate her citizens from siege by insurgents, armed bandits and all other forms of criminalities is a task his administration is focusing on and must be won. The bandits had operated both day and night leading to increase in number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and refugees across the affected councils unleashing terror on their victims with no respite in site. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network To end the reign of criminal elements causing nightmares to victims as citizens now sleep with one eye opened, Governor Bello who did not rule out the influence of fifth columnist in his administration directed that all vehicles without number plates or valid mode of identification be impounded henceforth because anyone with such vehicles will be assumed to be kidnappers or criminal elements and should be treated as such. One of the greatest challenges faced in rescuing Niger State from all forms of criminalities, Governor Bello said, is that of politicizing security issues. This, he said, has given upper hand to the armed bandits to operate with impunity in their acts of invading the agrarian communities raping women and children, kidnapping and carting away cattle and foodstuff belonging to their victims. He regretted that strategies on how to stem attacks on the people are almost immediately leaked to the bandits. “We plan and all that we have planned will leak to the armed bandits and they will all run into the town and hide. They even have escorts from among the people who lead them through the villages and bush paths where they attack our people”. Governor Bello who later presented 12 patrol vans and 20 motorcycles to vigilante groups to mount security checks in the four mostly affected local government councils (Rafi, Munya, Shiroro and Mariga) said, “I know you do not have such sophisticated lethal weapons as AK47 used by the armed bandits, but I know you are prepared for them”. With the brand of sophisticated weapons used by the bandits who operate and disappear into stretch of thick forest land, using language advantage and religious inclinations to their advantage in launching attacks on soft targets, Governor Bello however said his administration is optimistic that the combined security team will evolve new strategies to tackle the menace. Governor Bello had told all those present at the presentation of the operational vehicles to the vigilante groups that, “Nobody is happy, about what is happening and it is time for us all to come together. The bandits have ears everywhere, after President Muhammadu Buhari had sent us the best of equipments, but we cannot catch them again because they have been informed by some persons who don’t mean well for us”. “With the support of the vigilante groups, we are re-strategizing because the social media exposed efforts security agencies already put in place but as it is now, all the codes and efforts in place will be changed. We are doing these to give hope to the affected communities to avoid possible disease outbreak in the refugee camps. We want the Internally Displaced Persons to return to their various homes”. “So far, strategies to fighting the armed bandits may not yield desired results if the government fails to consider other variables aiding criminal elements’ siege on Nigerians. The armed bandits daily perfect their incursion into parts of the state, Minna the state capital and some commercial cities like Zuba and Suleja and probably their target destination being Abuja, the federal seat of power,” a public analyst, Mr. Dimas Ezekiel warns. Dimas who said he was once in the hospitality business drew the attention of the state government to the influx of aliens who cannot speak or understand any of the indigenous languages or could barely communicate in Hausa, some of these men of no fixed address he said could be potential threats to security of lives and properties of Nigerlites. “Besides Suleja/Zuba axis, these aliens who always move onboard trailers, tankers and other articulated vehicles” he said “are discharged and they melt almost immediately into some spots within Minna the state capital, Bida, Mokwa as beggars or almajiris and dressings of some of their elderly ones easily give them away in repatriating them back to wherever they are coming from if government wants to be seen as being sincere in curbing security challenges.” “I heard that the Governor is pointing fingers on some members of his cabinet or insiders sabotaging his efforts to end wanton killings just like President Muhammadu Buhari was also blaming Muammar Gaddafi for Boko-Haram and other armed bandits’ incursion into Nigeria, but I wonder if the state government is not looking beyond confronting the bandits to smoke them from their hideouts. Is the government not seeing what is going on in mechanic villages, why is the business of fixing tinted glasses on all kinds of vehicles, including cars with pictures and insignias of politicians booming: who are the owners or drivers of such vehicles and of what purpose are they darkening the glasses, what are they hiding? These are some of the questions I expect security agencies to try and provide answers for.” “Another issue I would like to raise our consciousness is, has the state government taken time to enlighten or warn citizens against visitors who settle in their midst, some of these aliens come into Nigeria and within a short time using language and religious advantage they mix-up with locals and easily they entice and brainwash them with fake assurances that joining them in crime pays more. Landlords, who are your tenants, do you have details of the kind of work your tenants do? “With the federal government throwing its doors open to foreigners with this her, Visa on Arrival policy, who are your guests, what is the level of collaboration between the government, security agents and hoteliers or those in hospitality business in checking expatriates lodging in their hotels from where they plan and carry out their evil intents to cause security threats? Maybe the state government or security agencies did not even know the number of hotels in the state or unknown to them that such facilities could serve as habour for criminals coupled with the daily increase in the number of destitute flocking strategic spots within Minna metropolis alone. “How many of these aliens have valid traveling documents or mode of identification to know what country they are migrating from and of what mission they are in Nigeria? “ While we easily open our arms/doors for them to penetrate everywhere, Dimas said it is regrettable that the relevant agencies pay lip service when it comes to scrutinizing them. “Most of the foreigners migrating from neighbouring countries particularly; Chad and Niger, including the fruit/water vendors (mai-ruwa), shoe shiners, the petty traders hawking wares who could be spies and/or undercover criminals and others doing menial jobs to earn a living come from? All these are clear indications that we have not given issues of security the attention it deserved,” he said. He further argued that, “for the government to successfully tackle security challenges, efforts must be made to go beyond mere engaging the Boko-Haram, insurgents, criminal elements or armed bandits whichever one you chose to call them. Government should create jobs to discourage our youths from their enticements as part of holistic approach that must not be limited to taking the battle right to the door steps of the criminal elements because whether we accept it or not, these criminals are human beings, some of them live among us just to disguise and get information on what plans are being made to end their terror.” Meanwhile, Hotel Owners’ Association in Niger State has debunked the insinuations that they harbour criminals or people with criminal intents using their facilities in perpetrating crime against Nigeria and her citizenry. Secretary of Hotel Owners in Niger State, Alhaji Mohammed Lawal told our correspondent in an interview how the association takes time to screen their guests, including but not limited to ascertaining identities and bio-data of clients before being provided with accommodation. Lawal said the association is faced with a number of challenges from other hotel owners. This according to him includes refusal of many hotel owners, particularly politicians and civil servants to willingly register as members. According to the hoteliers’ state secretary, “In Minna for instance we have about 100 hotels, out of this number we have only 30 registered as members. There are also about 50 hotels here in Tunga alone. We meet quarterly to discuss issues of interest to our business, including security.” As part of efforts at supporting the government to check insecurity, Lawal said they educate their staff on the need to get detailed identities of clients wanting to lodge in their hotels, adding however that any client that refuses to divulge expected information about him/herself were turned down. On claims by the state governor that every strategy to stem all forms of criminalities is being sabotaged by some fifth columnists in his administration, some observers had insisted holds no water as far as securing the lives and properties of entire citizenry is concerned. Taking the battle to the criminals’ den being put on hold as indicated by the state government however is contrary to the views expressed by Dimas and others who are of the strong opinion that taking the battle right to the enemy door steps is just one out of the many ways of ending their grip on the state. Also worried by the rise in spate of crime and criminalities, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Niger State Council rising from its congress last Thursday called on the state government to be more proactive in checking influx of persons of no fixed addresses and destinations into Niger State. While commending efforts being made so far to eradicate armed banditry by the government, the NUJ said the security situation across the country demands more of actions than mere talking and lamentations hence the union expects the relevant agencies to go back to its thinking box and evolve new strategies to end loss of lives and properties of citizens. Members of the Commercial Motorcycle and Tricycles Owners/Riders Association, another key stakeholder playing key role in the fight against crime and criminalities in Niger State, could not be reached as at the time of filing this report. Unconfirmed reports had it that latest spate of crimes in Niger State were being perpetrated by people using motorcycles. About five days ago, a trailer fully loaded with motorcycles and over 30 youths accompanying the consignment were seen moving into Minna and heading towards the eastern by-pass but none of the occupants or people nearby could account for their identities, where they were coming from and their destination/mission to the state. “Obviously, the criminals you are planning to catch would simply move out from the bushes or hideouts and melt into the larger population in towns and cities where they hibernate pending a time the coast will be clear for them to get back to the trenches and continue in their siege against innocent citizens hence the need for the involvement of key stakeholders to achieve maximum results. “The armed bandits are not just humans living with us and have ears and see whatever is going on around them before planning their attacks or continuing in their bloodletting once the manhunts for them by security agents are relaxed. What the government should have simply done”, stakeholders observed “is to tackle the menace from all fronts and only then can the much desired results be achieved all things being equal.” While new strategies on how to end armed banditry and other forms of criminalities are being worked out, Nigerlites are more worried on how long the wait for their safety and that of their properties are guaranteed. Only God knows when real lasting peace and security of lives and properties can be achieved in Niger State.