LAGOS – The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has disclosed that the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of Max Air aircraft, a Boeing 747- 400 with the registration number 5N-DBK, which had a serious incident at the Minna Airport on September 7, 2019 was unserviceable. The bureau also disclosed that the airline lacked approved Safety Management Systems (SMS) as required by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (NCARs), which is a serious infraction in the global aviation industry. These were contained in the bureau’s preliminary reports on two serious incidents, which occurred in Nigeria in September and November, 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the report, the aircraft with 578 souls onboard; 560 passengers and 18 crewmembers, which had on September 6, 2019 arrived King Abdul Aziz International Airport (OEJN), Jeddah, Saudi Arabia from Murtala Mohammed Airport, Lagos, at 17:10:00 as inbound flight NGL2091. The same aircraft departed OEJN for Minna Airport, Nigeria as flight NGL2092, to airlift returning hajj pilgrims with 8hrs, 13mins fuel endurance onboard. The AIB said that immediately it was notified of the serious incident by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), it instantly retrieved the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and CRV, but regretted that there were no relevant data in the CVR due to its non-serviceability. The report said in part, “The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were retrieved and downloaded at the Flight Safety Laboratory of Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) Nigeria. There were no relevant data recorded on the CVR as it was not serviceable as at the time the aircraft was dispatched. “Data pertinent to the incident flight were captured on the FDR, which include localiser deviation, glide slope devistion, pressure altitude, radio height and vertical acceleration. Max Air does not have an approved Safety Management System as required by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations.” According to AIB’s report, the incident, which affected one runway edge light, slightly damaged the aircraft. The AIB in its immediate safety recommendations called on the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) to ensure that the navigational aids installed at all the operating airports in the country are calibrated in accordance with the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) Supplement S 38/2019 dated September 10, 2019. It also recommended to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to always ensure that there is effective control of birds and wild life during airport operating hours at the Minna Airport. The other serious incident report released by the bureau was that of the Air Peace aircraft’s B737-500 with the registration number: 5N-BUJ. According to the report, the aircraft with 84 passengers and six crew members as at the time of the incident lost one engine while airborne en-route to Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri, on November 5, 2019 from the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. The report revealed that at 23,000ft, there was a loud bang in the aircraft, which led to its automation to go off and loss of Engine Two while the aircraft veered a little to the right. According to the report, there was a second bang few seconds after the first one from the same aircraft, which affected Engine One, made the crew to make air return to base immediately and declared ‘MAYDAY’ to the Lagos Area Control Centre (ACC). The report said, “At about 23,000ft, I heard a loud bang and the automation went off and the airplane veered a little to the right. The second bang came few seconds after the first and we quickly glanced at the primary engine instrument panel and noticed that N2 indication was zero; N1 was also rapidly decreasing and was at about 30 percent, while we were climbing. Post occurrence inspection revealed the malfunctioned engine to be No.2. “The flight crew identified the occurrence as ‘severe engine damage’ and in response, carried out memory items before consulting the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH). At 07:46:32hrs, the crew declared ‘MAYDAY’ (emergency) to ACC, requesting to stop climbing and make an air return to Lagos, which was granted.”