Joseph Albasu Kunini, Speaker, Taraba State House of Assembly in this interview with journalists in Jalingo after the signing of the 2020 appropriation bill into law, gave the breakdown of the N215b budget. Janet Nyajon Audu was there. Excerpts: Having signed the 2020 appropriation bill into law, in your own opinion, do you think this budget is realistic? Yes, the budget is realistic because in the interest of the state and in the submission of the governor, he said it is Budget of Accelerated Development and in a state like Taraba that God has blessed with much natural resources, for him to bench marked the budget at N 215b, to me it’s a realistic budget because what the state is envisaging to accrue from the federal account and other instant revenue centres we have in this state, so the budget is realistic and I am sure we are going to hit the budget. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network We have also seen an increase in the budget, the budget submitted earlier by Governor Ishaku was N 213b and we now discovered an increase to the tune of N 215b,can you tell us the criterial used to jack-up this budget?. You recall that when the governor laid the budget before the House of Assembly, the total figure was N 213b and in the interest of the state, at that time the VAT was captured at 5% and the federal government have now signed into law the financial act that jacked-up VAT to 7.5% so, it’s the differences of 2.5% that we have to cost it and that is what lead to the jacking-up of the budget from N 213 Billion to N 215bn. What is the fate of Taraba state civil servants as regards to the national minimum wage? Is this budget captured in the national minimum wage? The national minimum wage came as a result of clamour calls by employees both at the Federal and state, and the Federal Government have asked the states to make sure that they all capture it in their budgets. But one thing I want you to know is that ordinary, we know that before minimum wage will be increased, there must be a reason and the reason could be when there is gallery or hyperinflation in the country. The inflation rate in the country we know that have been very, very high therefore, it’s good for government to increase minimum wage but, even at that, we are expecting that Federal government should be able to review her own revenue formula first before they could think of increasing the wage of the employees but, Taraba state government is doing everything possible to make sure that we come to the aid of employees in the state. During the presentation of reports yesterday, one of the observation the committee made was that some of the MDAs have repeated items in this budget which were also in last year’s budget. How do you intend strengthening your oversight so that is not just having a document but the document is actually implemented so that we don’t have what is in this year’s budget appearing in the next year budget? I presided over the sitting and I can’t remember where the committee said what happened was at the result of poor implementation. What I know is that, budget is nothing but a mere estimate, it does, not mean that the government have the money in her purse, it’s an estimate that if A B C happens, we will do X Y Z, even if the budget was not adherently followed, it is because of other core centres must have not perform exceedingly, there has never been a time a committee said the budget was poorly implemented but instead, government always have priority centres or areas, so if there are any items that cannot be implemented may be because government most have giving it a less priority, the items can be defer until another budgetary year that is why you can see some items kept reappearing is not as if it was at a result of poor implementation. If you put the total revenue expected from the Federation account, IGR expected refunds, that gives you N 107bn meaning that the remaining amount of money will be borrowed and in the budget, government planned to borrow N72b. If this monies are approved and the government go ahead to borrow, don’t you think that is going to put the state at the high rate of highly indebted state? That is why it’s call budget, like I said earlier, it is not as if the government have the money at its disposal. Don’t forget that Taraba is blessed with all kinds of resources, aside the expectation from Federation account, we have other revenue centres in this state that we can explore therefore, even if the government indicated in the budget that they will borrow, that does not mean that they must borrow, it’s just a mere policy statement when other core centres appreciated. We might not even borrow, let me tell you without mincing words that Taraba is one of the state that have least borrowing capacity that is very minimal, because we know what is going on in others state and our government will always want to discourage borrowing. That is why you see that the amount he intend borrowing is very minimal. Don’t forget that government is all about development and development means spending and you cannot spend paper but money, therefore, if we must give development to the people you most spend. Borrowing like I said is a policy statement but when it is sacrosanct that we must borrow, we can’t help but do just that because we have to develop the state.