Human rights activists on Monday demand an end to terrorism and insecurity in the country at the 14th memorial of Dr Beko Ransome-Kuti. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that they made the demand at the end of a rally at the Beko cenotaph, Anthony, Lagos. Speaking on the theme: Beko 14 years after: #SecureNigeriaEndTerror#, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, President, Women Arise, described Beko as a consistent fighter, defender of the cheated and an ardent critic of all forms of oppression. Odumakin said that the activist had left an indelible mark on Nigeria social and political landscape through his doggedness and uncommon commitment to the fight for freedom and justice. “His numerous battles against irresponsible leadership, both military and civilian, earned him a special place among profiles of democratic and human rights defence. “Beko was a worthy ambassador of freedom, who stood for the masses against the violation of human rights and the rule of law,’’ she said. Odumakin called concerted effort to create an enabling environment for the security of lives and property of all Nigerians. She, therefore, urged the government to do all within its power to put an end to terrorism. In his remark, Mr Femi Aborishade, the pioneer National Secretary, National Conscience Party (NCP), said that Ransome-Kuti laid down his for the freedom of the masses. Aborishade condemned the de-registration of 74 political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He said the action of INEC was anti-democratic targeted at excluding people from participating and exercising their civic right. According to him, this is not what democracy is all about. “We call for the implementation of Section 225a of the 1999 Constitution (as amended),’’ he said. Also, Mr Rasak Oladosu, Director, Grassroot Democratic Initiative, said that it was time for Nigerians to re-assert themselves. “Ransome-Kuti was a great icon who fought for the poor masses; therefore, we should rededicate our lives to better Nigeria. “We shall continue with the struggle to campaign for the democracy in Nigeria,’’ he said. Mr Femi Lawson, Secretary General, Nigerians Unite Against Terror, called on government to be responsible for welfare and security of lives and property of the citizenry. “We call on the Federal Government to restructure the security architecture of the country. “We demand a change of security chiefs with fresh ideas to better secure the country; this will bring about less colossal loss of lives and property. Retired Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu, Chairman, National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), called on Nigerians to live in unity and make Nigeria a great country we all dream of. Kanu said that everybody, irrespective of religion or ethnic differences, must all come together and build a great Nigeria. The scion of Ransome-Kuti family, Dr Dotun Ransome-Kuti, commended members of the civil society for deeming it fit to remember his father and other heroes of the land. He appealed to government and Nigerians to continue to immortalise the patriots who fought for the country.