INNOCENT OWEH, AYO BADA, CHIBUIKE CHUKWU LAGOS, ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has assured D’Tigress of adequate preparation for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo. The president gave the assurance while congratulating the team for qualifying for the Games after their first and only appearance at the Athens Games in 2004, promising to ensure proper preparation and mobilization for all outings Buhari in his congratulatory message said that he believed the team has what it takes to make good outing at the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, urging them to remain focused, determined and energized for a good outing at the Olympics. The President, while commending the sportsmanship and resilience of the team all through the qualifying stages, saluted their courage in always putting out their best. He also commended team officials and the National Basket Ball Federation (NBA) for the discipline and motivation of the D’Tigress. D’Tigress Guard, Ezinne Kalu, has assured that the team would make the country proud after qualifying for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. The Landerneau BB of France star player noted that the unity in the team and their desire to make names would propel them to aim for big things at the Olympic Games. “We are all happy because we came through difficult qualifiers,” she said, adding, “We are taking that spirit to the Olympic Games and are going to make Nigerians proud at the end of the day because the spirit is very high. Despite losing to the host Serbia 64-70 in their second game of the qualifiers, D’Tigress did themselves a huge good, blowing out Mozambique 85-51 in their first game and that result plus the latter’s huge loss to the United States 49-124 guaranteed Nigeria’s qualification for the Olympic Games, even though D’Tigress lost their last game 71-76 to the United States. Kalu participated in the 2019 Women’s Afrobasket where she was named Most Valuable player of the tournament. She average 13 points and 3 assists during the tournament. In a related development, the team’s assistant coach, Peter Ahmedu has praised the players for fighting gallantly in winning the ticket in Serbia, promising that they will work harder to get better before heading to the Olympics. According to him, the motivation was making history by achieving Nigeria’s biggest marks ever in the women’s basketball event of the Games. “D’Tigress have done well, and we praise them. Kudos to the players for their efforts. They gave all they can, so much passion and intensity, even when they lost their last two matches. “They showed determination to achieve something, and I praise them for that. I hail D’Tigress, they have done well, and I believe they will get better and do better. “I give kudos to D’Tigress and if we are in top gear in our full preparation towards the Olympics, the lapses which we have seen so far, the intensity, the team chemistry must come up together and that will take us to the next level. “So, we thank D’Tigress for a good outing here qualifying for the Tokyo 2020, we hope to do better when the training camp starts,” he said.