AKURE – Fraudulent elections has been identified as the major factor responsible for the socio-economic and political problems being experienced in Nigeria. This was the observation of Dr. Festus Adedayo, while delivering lecture at the annual awards ceremony of a local news magazine, Trace, in Akure, the Ondo State capital at the weekend. Adedayo who was delivering a lecture entitled, ‘Elections As Albatross of Democracy in Nigeria: The Way Out’, highlighted the genesis of electoral violence in Nigeria, noting that it had become endemic with snatching of ballot boxes, manipulation of electoral results, blockage of political opponents on election day as well as wanton destruction of lives and property. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He submitted that the outcome of a subverted election in any democratic setting could not be adjudged to be a true reflection of the wishes of the people. He charged Nigerians, particularly those at the corridor of power, to strive for adherence to all dictates of Electoral Act with a view to conducting credible, free and fair elections in the country. At the event, Prof. Emmanuel Adedayo Fasakin, Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Ile-Oluji, Ondo State, was decorated with the Man of the Year Award in recognition of his exemplary leadership qualities in transforming the institution from obscurity to prominence within a very short time of its existence. The Rector, in his acceptance speech, appreciated the media organisation for honouring him, describing the award as spectacular. He said: “I have received many awards, but this is a very special award that is not solicited. Our story is from obscurity to prominence and ditto the Polytechnic. “I really want to dedicate this award to the Polytechnic community, it is not my own achievement, I cannot do it alone, it is for the entire staff and students.” Other awardees included Omowumi Olatunji-Ohwovoriole (Woman of the Year), Olorogun (Dr.) Eddy Olafeso (Political Leadership), Hon. Tomide Akinribido (Lawmaker of the Year) and Mr. Femi Fadairo got award for Community Development Service. Mr. Joel Ogunsola was awarded Human Capacity Development, Dr. Olumuyiwa Daramola(Humanitarian Services), Mr. Gbenga Adene (Young Man of the Year) and Miss Folajogun Akinlami (Young Woman of the Year.)