LAGOS – The Chairman of Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC (SAHCO) PLC, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, has expressed delight at the growth of the ground handling company since its acquisition some few years ago. Afolabi, however, said that there was still room for more developments in the company and charged the management team not to rest on its oars. A statement by Mrs. Vanessa Uansohia, Manager, Corporate Communications, SAHCO, said that Afolabi stated this at the end of the three-day management retreat with the theme: ‘A New Dawn: Reaching for the Heights’ in Ogun State, recently. Afolabi, who was represented at the occasion by Mr. Olukunle Oyinloye, SIFAX Group Managing Director, observed that SAHCO had successful over the years and encouraged all the participants to open their minds to learn, unlearn and to relearn fresh insights. Mr. Basil Agboarumi, the Managing Director, SAHCO, while presenting his opening speech, reiterated that the successes of SAHCO were courtesy of the hard work and dedication of all the staff. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He charged all participants to continue to support the management in a bid to ensure consistency in its growth. At the event, resource personalities were also invited to speak on various topics in line with the theme and to also proffer solutions to challenges being faced by the organization. The resource persons included Olujimi Tewe, a seasoned career success catalyst and motivational speaker who spoke on ‘Leveraging Corporate Agility For Achieving Greater Heights.’ He expressed that leadership was the ability to get results through others and not the ability to get results by yourself. He encouraged all the participants to reproduce themselves through others and that each leader should have a Legacy mentality. Another Speaker, Jennifer Dafe, enjoined participants to continue to foster the team spirit, diligence, loyalty, quality service delivery and innovative character that SAHCO was known for, while being in tune with the latest improvement in Customer Service.