Chief Martin Onovo is the presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) in the 2019 election. Onovo, currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC), in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the controversial Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election, the Western Nigeria Security Network, otherwise known as ‘Operation Amotekun’, the recent Financial Act and other crucial issues. Excerpts: Controversies have been trailing the Supreme Court judgment on Imo State, which sacked Emeka Ihedioha and enthroned Hope Uzodinma. How do you see this judgment of the apex court? The Supreme Court judgment in the Imo governorship case was the reason for many protests across the country. Both the PDP and Hon. Ihedioha rejected the judgment. I am not a lawyer. I may not understand all the technicalities. But, the judgment seems to go against some specifics. Some of these specifics include: The APC is very unpopular in the Southeast; the APC could not win even one Assembly seat in the Imo election; the APC showed as fourth in the official INEC Imo governorship results. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Also, the result sheets used by the Supreme Court were rejected by both the tribunal and the Appeal Court; the result sheets were tendered by a police officer and not even a polling agent; with the Supreme Court ruling, total number of votes exceeded total number of accredited voters; many Imo indigines including APC supporters have rejected the judgment; many senior lawyers have condemned the judgment. We do not understand the judgment. Also, there are published accounts that the judgment was arranged and that the arrangement leaked many weeks prior to the judgment date. This subverts the integrity of the Supreme Court as the final court. In our opinion, the worst judgment should have been a re-run. Therefore, in the interest of justice and to defend the integrity of the entire judiciary in Nigeria, the Supreme Court can set up a panel of other Supreme Court Justices selected by seniority, to review the judgment. If the judgment is upheld, then we all have to accept it. What is your take on the formation of the Western Nigeria Security Network, otherwise called ‘Operation Amotekun’, by the South West governors? Yes! The governors are right. It is their constitutional responsibility to protect their people. They can proceed to establish the legal details as agreed with the Attorney General of Federation to prevent any friction with federal security agencies. We know that terrorism and violent crimes have reached unprecedented levels in many parts of Nigeria. Governors, as constitutional Chief Security Officers of their states, have the constitutional authority to take appropriate steps to protect life and properties. What is your view on the initial declaration of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, that the formation of Amotekun was illegal as well as the use of the police to stop peaceful rallies of the people across the South West region? The AGF is reported to have said that his position was misinterpreted. Even if he said it, he is not a judge. Security initiatives taken by constitutional security authorities must be presumed to be legal until a court rules otherwise. Our view is that Amotekun is imperative and that governors are constitutional Chief Security Officers of their states and can implement any security initiatives they find appropriate. However, to ensure clear rules of engagement and avoid operational difficulties, it is better to coordinate all security operations with the principal national security establishment, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). How do you see the recent Finance Act signed into law by President Buhari and how it would impact on the common man in the country? It will impact very negatively on the common man in Nigeria. According to the Federal Government, the justification for the increased VAT rate is to increase tax revenue for government. This is too simplistic an assumption and inappropriate as it could actually result in less tax revenue for governments if sales drop significantly due to the general increase in prices. The associated inflation will surely result to increased poverty and crime. Generally, increase in corporate taxes results to decrease in both profits and investments of companies thereby, constricting economic development. In that way unemployment can also increase as companies may choose to cut personnel as a way to rescue their profitability levels. This government has shown unprecedented wastefulness, incompetence and massive corruption in the conduct of public activities. If the government had taken a few strategic policy actions to increase productivity, it would be sure of increased tax revenue from increased economic activities and higher GDP. Several months after the closure of the nation’s land borders would you say that Federal Government’s action had been yielding positive dividends to Nigerians? First, we know that the “closure” of all land borders by the Federal Government has not been effective in Northern Nigeria. This was confirmed publicly by the House of Representatives member representing Daura Federal Constituency. The closure is clearly incompetent and inconsistent with the reality at our ports. A government that cannot maintain effective border controls can most definitely not enforce a closure of its borders. No positive dividends can come from inconsistent and incompetent policies. President Buhari recently announced a free visa policy for Africans who wish to come to Nigeria. How do you see this development? The new policy of visa-on-arrival for all Africans is obviously very rash and indiscriminate. It is in breach of the fundamental principles of public policy development and is consistent with the incompetent and whimsical ‘trial and error’ method of this failed dictatorship. Public policy development requires a clear purpose and agenda. It requires the evaluation of options and cost-benefit analysis before the draft policy development and reviews by all stakeholders prior to the revision of the draft and then, the approval of the policy. In this way, policies are properly developed for efficient implementation. Unfortunately, this unpatriotic policy in its rashness, did not consider key Nigerian national interests like national security and national economic benefits. Some online surveys have shown over 80% rejection of this policy by Nigerians. This rejection is also highlighted by the belated move by the rubber-stamp Senate of Nigeria to review the policy. This policy threatens us with a negative impact on our economy and our national security particularly with respect to international espionage, insurgency and terrorism. Despite its claimed achievements, the people’s confidence in the President Buhari administration seems to have continued to wane. How would you explain this erosion of the people’s confidence and trust in the government? This government led by President Buhari is clearly incompetent and very corrupt. It has only one significant national achievement which is the rejection of LGBT depravity. We commend the government for that. Otherwise, it is clearly the worst government in the history of Nigeria as concluded by most ethical analysts. The facts, including Transparency International surveys and United States Department of States reports, confirm that this is the most corrupt government ever. Nigeria is already in a debt trap and accelerating towards a national debt crisis. Insecurity is worse. Unemployment is worse. Inflation is worse. The Naira is worse and Nigeria is the global capital of extreme poverty. This Buhari government is a cataclysmic failure. People cannot have confidence in a failed government. So, President Buhari must go. How do see the Ondo and Edo governorship elections coming later in the year, especially with the crises between the sitting governors and stakeholders in the All Progressives Congress (APC) which seem to have polarised the party in both states? First, I am not a member of the failed ruling party. We have seen the prevailing lawlessness in Nigeria. We saw the 2019 general elections and we saw the Kogi State governorship election. The conclusion we can draw is that Nigeria cannot conduct a free, fair and credible election with Buhari in power. So, President Buhari must go.     