Chief Ochi Emmanuel Ode is the Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC) in South West geo-political zone, and Leader, Igede People of Integrity, an influential political pressure group in Benue State. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the controversial Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election, the emergence of Operation Amotekun security outfit in South West states and an agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2020, among other crucial issues. Excerpts: A lot of controversies have been trailing the Supreme Court judgment on Imo State, which sacked Emeka Ihedioha and enthroned Hope Uzodinma as governor. How do you see the recent judgment of the apex court? The judgments of the Supreme Court these days have much to be desired. They have brought a lot of anxiety in the polity. They are brining fears and anxiety. Nigerians are now feeling that their thumbprints, which are their inalienable franchise to elect their leaders, are now being usurped by the courts. This portends danger to democracy in Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network For now, as the Supreme Court is presently constituted, it is a well known fact that there is rancour between the Justices of the Supreme Court. They are visibly suspicious of one another because a lot of them have become partisan and their sympathy to some of the political parties are so glaring that issues relating to cases of one party or the other cannot be separated with due regard to their Oath of Office. That is not good for the Nigerian state. Does what you said include the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad? The Supreme Court Justices are the same, either be it the CJN or other members of the Supreme Court Bench. We have seen a situation where Justices have been frequently reshuffled, which I believe has to do with the suspicion in the system. Would you say the formation of the South West Security Network, otherwise called ‘Operation Amotekun’ by the South West governors is right? I would have expected that the South West governors would have been properly guided in the establishment of the Amotekun outfit. In that regard, I would have expected them to approach their various State Houses of Assembly to pass resolutions or bills for the establishment of the new security outfit and endorse or sign into laws by the governors before the launch of the Amotekun. If that was done, I don’t think the Federal Government has any reasons to question the establishment because the state governors are the Chief Security Officers (CSOs) of their various states. That cannot be disputed because that is the position of the constitution. However, in establishing that, it must be clearly stated that the outfit is out to compliment the Nigerian Police because the states are not allowed to have parallel organisations like the Police Force. In that premise, Amotekun cannot be faulted by the Federal Government. To me, it is not yet too late for the governors to formalise it. But, I hope the Federal Government may not rush to proscribe the outfit before the necessary laws establishing the outfit is passed by the various Houses of Assembly. How would rate the performance of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019? To me, it is to rate the second term of President Buhari. He has given us the basis to rate him during his New Year speech. He has outlined what his administration could do in 2020. Until when proper assessment will be coordinated by Nigerians to rate his performance, for now, there is nothing to rate. Let us hope that he will fulfill his promises in his New Year message to Nigerians. I think Mr. President himself rated his activities not to be commensurate with his promises in his first term. He has raised concerns and promised that he would be firm and attain some levels of speed to deliver dividends of democracy in his second term. So, we are waiting on him. What specific things would you want President Buhari to accomplish in 2020? More than ever before, Nigerians want the restructuring of the Nigerian state into regions where every federating unit is allowed to grow at its pace. Secondly, Nigerians want a robust electoral reform that will guarantee the confidence of the voting populace. Thirdly, Nigerians want strong institutions of governance that will command the respect of Nigerians. Nigerian want an enduring infrastructures that will guarantee better life in all its ramifications, good roads, pipe borne water, stable electricity and well planned educational enhancement as well as security. What is your take on the 2020 Finance Bill recently signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari? The rush to do all these is like giving with the right hand and taking with the left hand. My take in all these is that the action will go a long way again to impoverish Nigerians who are already beaten to coma by the harsh economic policies. Look at the plan to hike electricity tariff. It is anti-masses. How would you explain the declining of Nigerians’ confidence on the President Muhammadu Buhari administration as he entered his second term? President Muhammadu Buhari came to power under the mantra of integrity. But, as time goes by, some of the lapses are being noticed in many areas that have exposed his acclaimed integrity to questions. Specifically, Buhari promised Nigerians that the many aircraft in the Presidential Fleet will be disposed of and plough the money back in the areas that will directly affect the lives of Nigerians. We are in the second term of his administration. None of this fleet has been sold, except one helicopter that was donated to the Air Force. Recently, he was accused of allowing his family members the use of one of the jets on private pasties, being funded by taxpayers’ money. During the uproar, the presidency rose to the defence that it has happened in the past, that it was not a new thing, forgetting that President Buhari came on the mantra of change. So, where is the integrity? President Muhammdu Buhari’s fight against corruption has been selective. Arrests and prosecution are one selective. In areas of human rights and rule of law, he disobeys court orders, while people are arrested and detained anyhow, with many languishing in detention without bail. His inability to check insecurity has affected people’s morale and confidence in him. Edo governorship election will hold later this year. How do you think it will go considering the crisis between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole which has polarised the All Progressives Congress in the state? The case between Comrade Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki is not unexpected because Oshiomhole is a combatant man by nature and very intolerant. With due respect to him, he talks before he thinks of the implications of what he says. He must have boxed Governor Obaseki to a corner for a long time hence the man is now revolting. It ought to have been a family affair. But, for them not to be able to resolve what could be a family affair speaks volumes of the matter. The Edo people seem to flow with Obaseki. But, the APC ticket for the 2020 governorship election will elude Obaseki as long as APC is still in crisis. Some of the dissenting voices against Obaseki are the personal aides of Oshiomhole or what could be called the Abuja politicians who are not in touch with the grassroots of Edo State. If Obaseki is denied the APC ticket, it will be a fight to finish because Obaseki will not drop his governorship ambition, but will cross carpet to any party of his choice. If the election will be free and fair, he will be re-elected and returned for second term. In other words, APC may lose Edo State. To me, Pastor Ize Iyamu has made a very deadly political blunder to have left PDP where he stood a chance of becoming a candidate. This time around, he would have been able to beat Governor Obaseki hands down as PDP candidate because of the crisis rocking the APC in the state. Now, Edo people see him as a desperate man seeking to grab power to feather his personal nest, rather than being hungry to serve Edo people. I pity him. What is your take on the Ondo State governorship election also coming this year, considering the crisis between Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and the APC stakeholders in Ondo State, especially those regarded as the Bola Tinubu’s loyalists? In Ondo State, we must not forget that the people know their onion and they hardly accept external interference in their political choices. Right from the time of Akin Omoboriowo, you will recall that Ondo people always resist external interference. Even during the process leading to the emergence of Akeredolu and his subsequent election in his first term, you will recall that the animosity between Tinubu and Akeredolu came to the fore. During his inauguration speech, Akeredolu did not mention Tinubu in association. So, the problem between them is not just starting. It had been there. But, when it comes to who gets what, Ondo people will decide for themselves. So, the influence of Tinubu for or against may not mean much weight. The issue of who gets APC ticket is still dicey in Ondo. The election proper will be between PDP and APC. It is going to be an interesting fight. But, the odds are in favour of Akeredolu because he will receive the support of the APC caucus and the governors of the party. What is your view on the leadership controversies in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in recent time? The Ministry of the Niger Delta Affairs and the NDDC cannot be separated. Indeed, it is duplication and a waste of recourses to have the Ministry of the Niger Delta Affairs and the NDDC. It is same thing. To me, one should give way for the other because it is a duplication and waste of resources. Having said that, the list of the NDDC board members that was submitted by the president to the senate was hurriedly done by Oshiomhole without due consultations of stakeholders from the Niger Delta region. It was his armchair list of directors that the president sent to the senate. That was why critical stakeholders who felt slighted over the development petitioned the presidency to put on hold the list. That was why the board, even though screened and cleared by the senate was not inaugurated. To me, this was in order. So far, the Interim Management Committee (IMC) is in charge and has the mandate to oversee the affairs of NDDC until the forensic auditing of the agency has been completed. The Interim Management Committee has been disallowed to award any contract, but will keep the agency alive till when a new board will be inaugurated. Would you say that Governor Babajide Sawo-Olu is performing in Lagos State? Sanwo-Olu is doing well. I am outside government. But, from the little I know of Lagos State, it is a complex state. Despite the fact that it has enormous revenue capacity, it is also its responsibility to offset all debt obligations. You must not forget that Lagos is highly indebted during the past administrations. So, the governor is bound to honour some of these obligations. In doing that, the resources available to him may not accommodate the huge infrastructural deficit in the state. So, to me what Sanwo-Olu has done so far is an effort made well.