AKURE – Nigerians have been advised by health expert on the need to exercise regularly and be cautious of their eating habit as it helps in the prevention of cancer. Dr. Aba Katung, Consultant, General Surgeon at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, Ondo State gave the advice on Tuesday during a Walk Against Cancer in Akure the Ondo State capital to commemorate the 20th World Cancer Day. He prescribed regular exercise of at least 10,000 steps per day, regular intake of vegetables and fruits as means of avoiding cancer. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The chairman of Coalition of Walk Against Cancer in Nigeria, which include the Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu’s Breast Cancer Association of Nigeria (BRECAN), explained that vegetables contained antioxidant that moped up free radical in the body which are injurious to gene in the body. He cautioned adults to avoid red meat, instead he advised them to eat fresh fish and white meat including chicken, turkey among others. Besides, he warned against smoking and intake of alcohol. Dr. Katung revealed that smoking is responsible for cancer of the lung, while alcohol causes liver cancer, cancer of intestine and prostate cancer, among others. He, however, noted that cancer of any type detected at early stage could be treated and cured. The general surgeon advised the citizenry to endeavour to do self examination of their breast every morning and visit nearest cancer centre for Clinical Breast Examination if they noticed any lump in their breasts. Medical tests were conducted to several residents of Akure, who visited the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre venue of the free medical tests organised by the coalition to mark the anniversary. Among free medical tests conducted are clinical breast and cervical cancer examination, Blood Pressure, Blood Sugar, prostate test, weight, among others. Beneficiaries were also given medical advice, prescriptions as well as referrals for onward treatment of whatever ailment diagnosed. Nevertheless, all results of tests conducted were kept secret between the medics and the individual beneficiaries.