Christians of different denominations in Ondo State on Sunday marched through the streets of Akure the state capital in a peaceful protest over the continuous killings of fellow Christians in some parts of the country. Displaying various placards and banners with different inscriptions condemning the killings of Christian faithfuls were singing and praying as they walked from First Baptist Church, Oba Adesida Road to Sacred Heart Cathedral at Ojigigogun Street, where they converged. The procession was led by the Chairman, Christians Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Ondo State, Rev. John Oladapo and other clerics from the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Bishop Jude Arogundade, the Catholic Bishop of Ondo Diocese, addressing the protesters condemned the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government for its failure to arrest and prosecute those behind series of killings in the nation. The Bishop said: “In this country today, the government does not understand its roles anymore. We have the government that is playing dumbs even when they know the truth. “We have a government that we can no longer trust. Why are we in this kind of situation today? We are here because for so long, we have seen a government that will want to give bodies and organisations like Myhetti Allah N100 billion recently and some other organisations that we know so well in this country. “This is the time for us to speak out clearly. If the government can no longer defend Christians in this country, we will defend ourselves. “The government has decided to arrest those protesting against the system rather than those who are destroying the system. “The government can not claim not to know those who are behind these killings. If they can no longer handle the security of this country, they should resign. That is what people of dignity do. “We have been told that those killing are from outside the country. So, some people can just come into this country and go away and not a single one has been arrested? We refuse to accept this.” Bishop Arogundade, however, commended and prayed for Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for being on the side of the people in this critical period. He said: “We have heard him clearly and we know his heart that he wants to protect his people and we are here to support him and to support the authorities of our land who want to work hard to support the defenceless.” The Bishop, however, prayed for the families of those who have been affected by various killings across the nation. Rev. Oladapo, CAN chairman in his adress charged Christians to be more vigilant and security conscious so as to avert unnecessary security threats around them.