ABUJA – The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has reiterated government’s commitment to ensuring of 70 per cent broadband penetration in Nigeria by 2025. Pantami stated this during the visit of Phase 3 Telecoms Limited led by its Executive Chairman Mr. Stanley Jegede at the Ministry’s Headquarters in Abuja at the weekend. The Minister said that Digital Economy Policy and Strategy for digital Nigeria cannot be achieved without broadband penetration in the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, “Whatever we do, we rely so much on broadband penetration. “That is why any effort to complement what we have been doing to ensure broadband penetration, even for one kilometer, is highly commendable. We do not undermine it, we really appreciate it.” He said the responsibility of building the ICT sector does not lie on government alone, noting that ICT globally are being supported and developed by private sector. Commenting on the role of government, Pantami said: “The main responsibility of government is to ensure that the environment is favourable and conducive, and if there are any challenges, government will intervene. “This is what we will continue to do and I assure you within the time I am going to spend here, I will give 100 percent to ensure that all the challenges we encounter are addressed.” The Minister pointed out that government was serious when it comes to broadband penetration, adding that the Federal Government was eagerly waiting for the report of the National Broadband Plan Committee 2020-2025 recommendations for the stakeholders to join hands together and ensure they take broadband penetration to the next level. He said the access gap in Nigeria is worrisome and the need to bridge it cannot be over emphasised because broadband penetration is directly proportional to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of a country. “The idea of coming up with digital economy is not only on paper but to implement it religiously that is why we come up with eight pillars that have strong roles to play and most importantly solid infrastructure which you have significant role to play in supporting the Federal Government to achieve that hence the responsibility is for all of us,” Pantami stressed. Earlier, the Executive Chairman, Phase 3 Telecoms Limited, Mr. Stanly Jegede commended the Minister on the resolution of the Right of Way (RoW) issues and the way he redirected the focus of the Ministry of Communications to digital economy. “That means it goes beyond just connectivity, it goes beyond what we use to do and we have no doubt that your years of experience and exposure at the NITDA and various other sector will come to bear directly in the Ministry.” Mr. Jegede said Phase 3 Telecoms is a national long-distance operator that had built up extensive fibre network across the country and their main focus is to connect Nigerians and improve broadband penetration.