Fierce clashes are still continuing between regime soldiers and loyalists on one hand, and opposition factions and jihadi groups on the other, in several areas in both Aleppo and Idlib countryside, as regime forces are trying to advance into Saraqeb and reach Aleppo – Latakia International Highway. On the other hand, opposition factions captured military vehicles and ammunition after recovering their positions in Zitan and Khalseh in the southern countryside of Aleppo. Syrian Observatory activists monitored sudden suspension of regime aerial operations after regime jets and helicopters bombarded both Idlib and Aleppo countryside with nearly 150 raids. Aerial operations on the “de-escalation” zone are limited only to Russian jets. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Observatory sources added that the number of today’s airstrikes carried out by Russian jets rose to 110, targeting Urem al-Kubra, Al-Kammary, Khan al-Asal, Al-Barqum, Aleppo-Damascus international highway in Aleppo countryside, Saraqeb and the vicinity of Kafr Batikh and Dadikh in Idlib countryside. Also, the number of raids carried out by regime jets rose to 149, targeting Al-Mustumma, Jabal al-Arbaeen, areas in Jabal al-Zawiya, Saraqeb and surrounding areas, the international highway in Idlib and Aleppo countryside as well as the contested areas there. For their part, regime helicopters dropped 56 barrel-bombs on Idlib and Aleppo countryside and the contested areas there. The number of people killed in airstrikes by Russian and regime jets on Aleppo and Idlib rose to 14: eight persons of whom seven people of the same family, including four children and three women, were killed by barrel-bombs on Sarmin, one woman was killed by Russian raids on Al-Atareb city, a child was killed as a result of regime jets’ airstrikes on the outskirts of Bench city, east of Idlib, three civilians were killed in Russian airstrikes on Urem al-Kubra town, and one civilian was killed in regime jets’ bombing nearby Al-Mastuma town. SOHR activists documented a spike in the number of regime soldiers and rebel fighters who were killed in the fierce battles and exchange of fire between both parties. 26 regime soldiers and loyalists have been killed since the early hours of Sunday morning. Also, 34 jihadis among 47 opposition fighters were killed in the same period.