“The most immediate is Boko Haram’s insurgency. Progress has been made in recent weeks by our security forces but victory cannot be achieved by basing the Command and Control Centre in Abuja. “The command centre will be relocated to Maiduguri and remain until Boko Haram is completely subdued” – President Muhammadu Buhari May 29, 2015. When President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office in 2015, he promised the nation that his government will pursue a three-point agenda which are tackling insecurity challenges, war against corruption and revamping the economy. He connected all the nations’ problems into these major three areas and promised to bring about a turnaround in his first four years in office. Given his vast experience as a retired General who played active part in the civil war which was fought between the government of Nigeria and the secessionist state of Biafra from July 6, 1967 to January 15, 1970, many believe President Buhari has the magic wand to liberate Nigeria from the insecurity crisis in the country, especially the Boko Haram menace which was one of the Achilles heel of the Goodluck Jonathan administration. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Buhari promised to end the Boko Haram crisis before the end of December 2015. Shortly after the promise, the Nigerian security forces in collaboration with the Multi National Joint Task (MNJTF) from Chad, Cameroon and Niger reversed the pre-2014 setbacks and Boko Haram occupation of some communities that were left not reclaimed by the Jonathan administration. The joint forces degraded the insurgents and forced them to the fringes of the Lake Chad, Sambisa forest and Mandara mountains. However, soon after the feat, other lesser criminal activities including herders/farmers clashes, kidnapping, banditry and communal clashes became recurrent stories and also overstretched the Nigerian security forces that were deployed to nearly 30 out of the 36 states of the federation. In the last few months, the terrorists in the North East with ISWAP loyal to ISIS and Boko Haram loyal to Abubakar Shekau, have equally resurfaced and sacked many communities, subdued many military formations, abducted many people and made many major roads inaccessible. Many Nigerians believed that a lot was achieved by the administration after the directive from the President that the Service Chiefs should relocate to the theatre of war in Maiduguri, the Borno state capital. The presence of the Service Chiefs served as a morale booster to the Nigerian troops and many territories which were under the command of the insurgents were reclaimed. The Chief or Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai also gave a marching order to his men to capture Abubakar Shekau, leader of the Boko Haram sect, within 40 days. However, having ‘technically’ defeated Boko Haram, it seems the military command never waited for the complete annihilation of the insurgents before moving out of the troubled zone. When President Buhari was receiving medical treatment abroad in 2017, Vice- President, Yemi Osinbajo who was then Acting President ordered the Service Chiefs to relocate to Maiduguri with immediate effect. He said there was a need for them to be at the military command control centre in the hotbed of insurgency. Speaking with state house correspondents at the end of the meeting, then Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali said: “We just finished a meeting with the acting president and the three service chiefs. We agreed that they should move back to the command centre again and see what are the things happening there. “We have also agreed that we should get more surveillance devices, cameras that will be able to see distant attackers coming to the position of our troops. “Also, the period of the raining season is a difficult moment for us. We cannot dominate the environment like what we do during the dry season but efforts are geared towards regaining our areas. All these ambushes that are happening would be stopped.” Recent developments in the country in recent times however indicates that the Buhari administration’s best in addressing the security challenges is not good enough as the nation is the country is at its lowest ebb in the fight against insecurity. Aside the Boko Haram menace, kidnapping, banditry and other criminal vices has become the order of the day. Less than two weeks ago, President Buhari himself expressed surprise at the current surge of security challenges across the country. In a statement released by his media aide, Femi Adesina, via his verified Facebook page, Buhari said, “I was taken aback by what is happening in the North West and other parts of the country. During our campaigns, we knew about the Boko Haram. What is coming now is surprising. It is not ethnicity or religion, rather it is one evil plan against the country. We have to be harder on them. One of the responsibilities of government is to provide security. If we don’t secure the country, we will not be able to manage the economy properly,” he said. Taking a deep look at the state of the nation, the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) last Sunday President Buhari is in denial of his failure to secure the country. The forum, in a statement by Ango Abdullahi, its chairman, said it appears the current administration does not have any idea on what will provide relief or solution to insecurity and poverty in the land. It said poverty has worsened in the north under the Buhari administration and that the president has failed the nation. “It has become necessary and appropriate, however, to make public, the position of the forum on important matters that affect the manner Nigerians live, and the future we must address,” it said. “The forum regrets that by any standard of judgement, the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari has failed the nation in the vital area of improving its security. “The relationship between insecurity and poverty is fundamental, but the administration does not appear to have any idea on what will provide relief or solution. “It gives the forum no pleasure to say that it had warned Nigerians that President Buhari lacked the will, the competence and commitment to lead it into a secure and prosperous future before the 2019 elections. “It is shocking that in spite of unprecedented consensus among Nigerians that the administration requires a new resolve, approach and leadership in the fight against the nation’s multiple security challenges, President Buhari appears either totally isolated or in deep denial over the result of his failures to secure Nigerians.” The verdict of the Northern elders was also corroborated by Afenifere, pan Yoruba socio-political organisation Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary said the Northern elders said the truth about the situation in the country and only people who are part of the rot in the system will disagree with them. They (northern elders)have not said anything out of place. All those who are not part of the rot in the land will have little or no disagreement with them”. “The country is not in good shape as things are going from bad to worse. This cannot be positive change” or desirable “next level”. Those of us who are not around the President cannot understand why he is keeping failed Service Chiefs who must also be causing demoralisation in the forces for truncating the careers of officers coming behind them. Whatever reason should be more personal than in the interest of state” Afenifere said. However, the Presidency in a statement by the Special Adviser to the President(Media and Publicity), Femi Adesina, described Professor Ango Abdullahi, as a General without an army. “Professor Ango Abdullahi on Sunday signed a long-winding statement on many issues relating to the North, and purportedly to the country. “The former vice-chancellor signed the statement under the banner of Northern Elders Forum (NEF). “Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organisation that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. “Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Muhammadu Buhari, and its preference for another candidate. They all got beaten together. “NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything.”