LAGOS – In order to address the alarming problem which illicit trade poses to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the United Nations Conference On Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in conjunction with the Transnational Alliance to Combat Illicit Trade (TRACIT)will be convening the first-ever Illicit Trade Forum on February 3 and 4 at the Palais des Nations in Geneva. According to UNCTAD, “Illicit trade threatens achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Better, more synchronized efforts are needed to combat it It added that “The global economy loses more than US$2 trillion annually due to smuggling, counterfeiting, trafficking of humans and wildlife and other forms of illicit trade that hold back progress on the global development agenda. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The international organisation explained that the forum is designed to encourage an open dialogue among representatives from Member States, experts and non-governmental observers, with the aim to share expertise, promote international enforcement cooperation, coordinate resources and ensure countries are adequately equipped to mitigate illicit trade. Mukhisa Kituyi, UNCTAD Secetary-General said, “Illicit trade endangers all aspects of development and all 17 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It creates a triple threat to the financing of development: crowding out legitimate economic activity, depriving governments of revenues for investment in vital public services and increasing the costs of achieving the SDGs by eroding the progress already made.” TRACIT Director-General, Jeffrey Hardy, added: “Given the scale and damaging effects of illicit trade, a coordinated and sustained global response by governments and companies is urgently needed.” He explained that the international response to illicit trade is largely fragmented among many sectors vulnerable to illicit trade, which necessitates a joint approach that considers the interconnected nature of the problem, commonalities and points of convergence among its various manifestations. “Every country is feeling the malignant effects of illicit trade, underscoring the need for expanded partnerships and cooperation among governments to push back against this deterrent to global sustainable development,” said Pamela Coke-Hamilton, UNCTAD’s Director of International Trade. On the magnitude of Illicit trade, UNCTAD said the trade has drained nearly 3% of the world’s economy, saying that  If it were a country, its dark economy would be larger than Brazil, Italy and Canada,  and as large as Mexico and Indonesia combined. It added that that illicit trade endangers public health, as sub-standard and fake antimalarial medicines alone cause more than 100,000 deaths per year in Sub-Saharan Africa, explaining that it also pushes endangered species to the brink of extinction and causes irreversible damage to ecosystems. For instance, illegal logging, with an estimated annual value of up to $157 billion, is the world’s most profitable crime involving natural resources. In the same vein, it said illicit trade threatens the rule of law, owing to its links with organised crime; from human trafficking networks and tobacco smuggling to the involvement of organized criminal groups in fuel theft and the trade of counterfeit goods, saying that even more frightening are the links to terrorist financing that heighten threats to national and global security. As contained in the statement, experts at the forum will deliberate how to act together to defend the SDGs against the onslaught of illicit trade as well as explore the different methods used to measure illicit trade and identify common approaches by governments and industry actors to counter this problem and deter associated illegal activities, like money laundering. It further stated that participants will examine the role of the private sector in ensuring that illicit trade does not compromise the integrity of legitimate markets or jeopardize the well-being of consumers. The forum will discuss how stakeholders can better deter illegal trade across sectors, address vulnerabilities in supply chain systems, report criminal activity, promote sustainable resource management and protect against forced labour and other human rights abuses. It is expected to generate a roadmap for collective action by government, business and other stakeholders, including a call for shared policy guidelines and a process to ensure Member States benefit from intergovernmental experiences and expertise. Still on the dimension of negative impacts which illicit trade is leaving on economies, UNCTAD said up to 5% of goods imported to the European Union are fake and imports of counterfeit and pirated goods are worth nearly $500 billion a year while fake, substandard, smuggled and illegal agri-foods cost the global food industry an estimated $30 billion to $40 billion each year. On health, it said between 72,000 and 169,000 children may be dying from pneumonia every year after receiving ineffective illicit medicines.