Ado Ekiti – The first President of the Republic of Zambia, Dr. Kenneth Kaunda has hinted that the  OneUnitedAfrica vision of the pioneer Pan-Africanism was achievable if the young people key into agenda. A statement made available to Daily independent in Ado- Ekiti by the Director, Public Communications of the ONEUNITEDAFRICA, Lanre Aribisala said the former  Zambia Leader gave the admonition while receiving the convener of the initiative, Congressman Bimbo Daramola at his residence in Lusaka. He urged young African to, as a matter of urgency and necessity key into the vision of their forebears. The 96- year-old African leader who described the OneUnitedAfrica as a huge vision also admonished the convener and his team not to waiver in their quest to build a strong and united continent. Kaunda said,” he is overwhelmed that there is a young man driving this huge vision, one who has taken up the challenge that he Kenneth Kaunda posed when he asked and hoped for the enlistment of an assemblage of new, young men visionaries to build Africa and keep motherland afloat” through the Pan African. “…there was and still is a real hope for the Continent with the young people at the helm to succeed in the Pan-African dream if they (the young people) continue in their quest to build Africa”. Dr.  Kaunda showed effusive emotions, upon the presentation of the #ONEUNITEDAFRICA vision that puts forward the renaissance of Pan Africanism ideals as the vehicle for Africa’s peace, unity and prosperity. The sage, one of the vestiges and champions of Pan Africanism alongside the likes of Kwame Nkrumah, said for the team to pick up the vision with the demonstrated passion for the restoration of Africa’s essence, values, ideas, and ideals, in his words “…this is a very inspiring and humbling experience for me..” as he pushed back a show of emotion. “waxing strong walks with little need for his walking stick or assistance, good bodily built, with very firm grip with his handshake, the man who led the Republic of Zambia to independence, one of the persons who attended the September 19th conference in 1945, where Kwame Nkrumah charged all present to go lead the struggle for the independence of their respective “African states”. Revered and referred to as the Gandhi of Africa, the freedom fighter, Kenneth Kaunda, who was imprisoned twice for struggles that started in 1949 to secure the independence of his country and liberation of the African people. He became President of the Republic of Northern Rhodesia (Zambia) on the 24th of October 1964 after fifteen torturous years of persistent agitation and relentless pressure. He led the Pan African movement with other African Patriachs most of who later led their nations to independence such as #Kwame #Nkrumah, of #Ghana, #Jomo #Kenyatta of #Kenya, #Mwalimu #Julius #Nyerere of Tanzania, Dr. #Hastings #Banda of #Malawi, Chief #Obafemi #Awolowo of Nigeria. Dr. Kenneth Kaunda’s Pan-African passion was awakened during the Fifth Pan-African Congress in Manchester in the United Kingdom, held between 15th and 19th October 1945 where the strategy to oust colonialism in Africa and the seed for a free and united Africa was planted.