LAGOS – D’Tigress profile in global basketball is on the upward swing. Having won the Afrobasket back to back-2017&2019-the team made its domination of the Africa count at the world stage, by becoming the first African team-both men and women-to qualify for the quarter-final of any FIBA tournament. The Nigerian women achieved this feat at the 2018 FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup, the 18th edition of FIBA’s Women’s national team flagship tournament that held in Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain, where it won three games and lost two. Before achieving this feat, the team’s first FIBA World Cup outing was in 2006, where it crashed out at the group stage losing all its group games. However, before qualifying for the FIBA Women’s World Cup, D’Tigress maiden appearance at any tournament outside of Africa was at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. The Nigerian women qualified as African champion, having won the Afrobasket for the first time in 2003 in Mozambique. It was a baptism of fire in Athens, as the team lost its entire Group A games to Australia, Brazil, Greece, Japan, and Russia. In the 11/12th place game, it defeated the Korea for a final finish of 11th out of 12 teams. With this win, Nigeria became the first women’s African basketball team to win a game at the Olympics. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network That was the only time the Nigerians played at the Olympics, having failed to qualify for the next three editions. But this week in Belgrade, Serbia, the back to back African champion, will attempt to reach the summer Games in Tokyo for the second time. But to achieve this, the team must navigate one more hurdle, the Olympic Qualifying Tournament (OQT). With two tickets up for grab, Nigeria have Serbia, the host team and Mozambique to contend with. Though, USA are in the group, the Olympic and world champion have qualified for the Games. So their participation in the qualifiers is just fulfilling all righteousness. The Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) in its bid to qualify for the Olympics, the first time Nigeria will qualify the men and the women for the Games at the same time, should D’Tigress achieve this feat, has put together a team that will start training today in Belgrade. D’Tigress head coach, Otis Hugley Jr, called up 14 players for the qualifiers that will take place from February 6-9 in Belgrade. The players called up are; Upe Atosu, Evelyn Akhator, Pallas Kunaiyi Akpannah, Promise Amukamara, Aisha Balabare,  Elisabeth Balogun, Elo Edeferioka, Adaora Elonu, Ifunanya Ibekwe, Sarah Imovbioh, Ezinne Kalu, Victoria Macauley, Murjanantu Musa and Atonye Nyingifa. Hughley Jr retained the 12-woman roster that featured at the FIBA Women’s Olympic Pre-Qualifying Tournament Africa 2019 in Maputo, Mozambique adding two new names including Murjanantu Musa who inspired Air Warriors of Abuja to their first-ever Nigerian topflight league and was named MVP and Louisville University guard Elizabeth Balogun, who was not released by her school for the Maputo showpiece. However, Sarah Ogoke was called up last month as replacement for One Guard, Upe Atosu , whose school, Butler University in the United States of America, refused to release for the qualifying tournament. Before tipping off on Thursday, 12 out of the 14 players will be registered for the qualifiers. D’Tigress that have gone unbeaten in the last four years in Africa with an incredible 16-0 record will tipoff their quest for the Olympics against Mozambique on Thursday before playing Serbia the following day and USA on February 09, 2020. What are their chances of picking one of the two tickets on offer? Since USA is out of the equation, the host country, Serbia ranked fifth are in pole position to pick one of the tickets with D’Tigress having Mozambique to contend with for the remaining ticket. It means their game on Thursday is a must win for Nigeria, since the winner will pick the remaining ticket. Can Mozambique stop D’Tigress? It’s not impossible. D’Tigress must not believe that the game will be a walkover having beaten Mozambique thrice in their last three meetings since 2017, the last being last November in Maputo when D’Tigers beat them 57-48 in their first phase OQT. Two friendly games have been earmarked for D’Tigress as part of their preparations. “Those who think that Mozambique game will be a walkover must remember that FIBA-Africa president is from Mozambique, said Babs Ogunade, Nigeria Basketball Federation Vice President in an interview. “He wants his country to qualify for the Olympics. Serbia the host country also wants to qualify. And to worsen the situation, Nigeria will open the qualifiers against Mozambique. This will afford Serbia the opportunity of studying the Nigerian team. You see the conspiracy. So we have to prepare very well. We have to win our first game before playing Serbia in our second game. “The good thing is that the players are coming from their clubs where they play regularly. The 10-day window afforded only five days for training,” noted Ogunade. But Mozambique are not taking the qualifiers lightly as the resumed their preparation for the qualifiers in Turkey last month after four weeks of training in Maputo. They have the compliments of all their professional players, the latest being Spain based pair of Leia Dongue and Tamara Seda, who joined them in Turkey. Several friendly games against Turkey national team were played before they will leave for Serbia on Tuesday. Mozambique coach, Leonel Manhique, after releasing the list of players said that time was up to step up their preparation. “We hope to be up to the challenge and qualify for the Olympic Games 2020,” Manhique explained. Ezinne Kalu, Captain Adaora Elonu and Evelyn Akhator are expected to lead the team’s strength on both ends of the court. Their World Cup experience will come handy in this qualifier, needing just a win to be assured of the ticket for the Games in Tokyo. What will motivate the players is that except for Aisha Mohammed, none of the 14 players in camp has played at the Olympics. “It would be fantastic to qualify for the Olympics – a big achievement for Nigeria,” said Elonu, adding “We have one player who has been there before – Aisha Balarabe – and a flock of others who want to experience the event and compete. “The next level will be another challenge. These windows are difficult for all teams. Not much time for preparation. We are blessed and it will be an amazing achievement for us to reach the Olympics,” added Elonu. Macaulay, one of the new players called up, believes that they will never underrate any of the teams in Belgrade. While not taking any of the teams for granted, Macaulay who plays for Turkish side Galatasaray admits that they are going to take it one game at a time and go from there. “With 100 percent focus, I believe we will go far. We’re trying to put Nigeria back on the map. “No pressure at all. I believe in my team and myself and we are very talented and strong. Though it may be some challenging games I think we’ll be alright. I don’t think anything is going to be an easy ride. All the teams we play against are very good teams. “I am very excited to go to Serbia. I feel like we have a very good chance of playing well and making it to Tokyo for the Olympics,” she told FIBA.basketball.