ABUJA  – The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) yesterday disclosed that it was projecting a net revenue of N266,852,072,505 for 2020, that will spring from a plethora of outlined privatisation programmes. It has also ruled out the possibility of re-nationalising already privatised national assets, but preferred to explore collaborative solutions to resolving issues stunting the growth of those performing abysmally. Mr Alex Okoh, the Director General of the Enterprise, made the disclosure at an interface with journalists in Abuja. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, the BPE plans to carry out nine transactions under the energy sector with a net revenue target of N268.3 billion and an operational cost of N2.1 billion. The Enterprise also plans to execute three projects under Infrastructure Inand Public Private Partnership (I&PPP) department at the cost of N626.2 million but no revenue. Okoh said the mission of the BPE was to increase Federal Government’s revenue from both sales proceeds and tax receipts from the privatised enterprises. “The 2020 budget is about N10.5 trillion with about N2.1 trillion deficits. So, we need to be more creative in revenue generation to improve public infrastructure. By 2050, our population would double and that’s about 380-400 milion people. So, in order to access the requisite revenue, we as a bureau need to look outside the traditional oil revenue. Look at how we can convert assets to liquidity. “The objective is also to inject privatisation proceeds into micro-economic activities. There will be growth in real GDP resulting from increase in manufacturing and production of goods and services following availability of needed utilities and infrastructure, among others. “Broadening of share ownership in the country through divestitures, and growth in employment indices through continuous conversion of the high public/private ratio of the country’s labour force to a high private/public ratio”, he said. On the protracted power crisis, Okoh advised that a collaborative solution be sought involving all players in the power value chain, rather than attempting to re-nationalise it. He said the electricity target for Nigeria was 7,000 megawatts by the end of 2021 and 11,000 megawatts by 2023. On the delay in privatising the Bank of Agriculture (BOA), Okoh attributed it to the complexities of the transaction. He said the bank has suffered perennial mismanagement that needs to be carefully cleaned up. “It has been poorly managed and we underestimated the enormity of the challenges. It has a negative shareholders fund of N35 billion and non-performing loan of N97 billion and you cannot recover from such. To set up a brand new outfit, what you need is N15 billion capital. “So, should we put more money to revitalise BOA? It has properties, branches. So, we plan that in the new privatisation arrangement, CBN will own 20%, the Ministry of Agriculture 20%, farmers’ union 40% and core investors 20%. That’s our proposition. It has been a tortuous journey for us. We are talking with CBN to see if it can write off the NPL and we can correct negative shareholders, so we can fix it. We decided that whatever it’s worth, we should keep BOA rather than starting off a new bank. “We hope we will do that this year. If you were doing a pure business decision, you won’t go that route but it’s a national asset and it requires a haircut by CBN”, he explained. On the difficulties in selling national assets, the BPE boss said there were usually pushbacks from MDAs and eventually, timelines are not met. But we have addressed that via aggressive stakeholders engagement”, he said. 