The Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) yesterday said that the past 12 months had been challenging and difficult period for the Nigerian economy. Ms. Mary Uduk, Acting Director General of the SEC, who made the declaration at a media parley with journalist in Lagos yesterday, however, said that despite the challenges, SEC is ready to build on the achievements of 2019 this Year. She said: “The last 12 months has been a challenging and difficult period for our economy, the markets and by extension the SEC. Despite revenue challenges and competing demands, SEC successfully implemented key programs and projects, achieving significant milestones. “The commission is poised to build on the gains of 2019 with a renewed focus on resource optimisation and execution of prioritised initiatives in the coming years” The Acting Director General explained that some of the areas where major strides were recorded in 2019 included operations as were seen in the partnership between it and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The two agencies with the partnership, further streamlined the processes for issuance of new securities, making the issuance process shorter and more efficient. “SEC in the outlook noted that the streamlining was aimed at eliminating duplication of processes between the SEC and the NSE”, she said. She specifically said that SEC introduced a checklist review process for the issuance of debt securities, which would reduce the time to market of debt securities and encourage more issuances. According to Ms. Uduk, “time within which approval was given by the commission for debt issues had now fallen from six to two weeks”. She, however, noted that a comprehensive review of the Rules on Collective Investment Schemes was recently concluded to improve the global competitiveness of the CIS industry in Nigeria. The SEC Acting Director General also disclosed that the total amount generated from penalties amount to N194,477,815.00, while successes were also recorded in the area of rules, regulations, information technology, business process automation, financial technology, capital master plan among other areas of its core mandates.