A grandfather who burned alive his crying 11-month-old grandson in a stove has been jailed for 15 years in a strict regime jail. His wife, the little boy’s granny, was imprisoned for nine years over the child’s gruesome death by a Russian court. The couple were babysitting Maxim Sagalakov in Khakassia region when he was murdered by incineration. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Their daughter Viktoria Sagalakova, 21, returned to find the child’s charred remains in the stove of the family’s house in Kharoy village. The court heard horrific evidence that the child’s crying had annoyed a drunk Zhanna Miyagasheva, 43, and she ‘started to suffocate the boy until he was silent’. Her husband Alexander Miyagashev, 48, then took the helpless boy and placed him in the burning stove. Senior prosecutor Maxim Rodionov told the court forensic analysis ‘reliably established that the death of the child occurred precisely because of the actions of Alexander Miyagashev, since he placed him in the furnace and burned the boy’. The child died ‘from 100 percent burns to the body’ and exposure to carbon monoxide poisoning. Sentencing the couple, judge Viktor Galimov said: ‘The forensic expert explained that before being placed in the stove the child had a heartbeat. ‘He was breathing, with a normal body temperature. ‘That is, there were signs of life.’ The court heard that the grandfather had burned alive puppies and a cat. In court, the wife and husband each blamed the other for the appalling crime. ‘I was heavily asleep,’ said the grandmother. ‘How could I do this with my beloved grandson? ‘People say ‘grandchildren are sweeter than children. ‘The last time I saw him was alive and well …’ Alexander denied putting the baby in the stove and told the judge: ‘Your Honour, I did not kill. She killed. ‘I smoked, went to sleep, then went to the toilet. She told me: ‘I killed our grandson’.’ Neighbour Evgeniy Borgoyakov told Russian television the grandfather had ‘turned mad from alcohol’. He said: ‘We hear he pushed the baby into the wood-burning stove. Mail Online