LAGOS – Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, yesterday stated that the Assa North-Ohaji South (ANOH) gas and condensate processing plant in Imo State slated to commence operations in 2021, will further boost the power generation in Nigeria by over 1,200 megawatts, adding that the uncertainties around changes in fiscal framework, local community crisis, mismatch in currency gas pricing constraints were other prevailing challenges in the oil & gas industry. Mr. Okechukwu Mba, the General Manager, Gas at Seplat, made the disclosure at the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) 2020 held in Abuja. Speaking during a panel session dubbed: ‘Charting the Way For ward for Gas,’ he said strategically the company was positioned to access Nigeria’s main demand centres, adding that current well stock delivering was around 300 Million standard cubic feet per day (Gross). With over $300m invested in Oben Gas Plant Expansion Project, which was another gas plant run by Seplat, he said the company currently contributed about 30 per cent of gas to power generation in Nigeria. He added: “ANOH project has the capacity to unlock over 1,200MW of gas constrained power generation capacity.” However, Mba said despite the huge gas reserves, the country has been unable to translate its resources to effectively boost the economy, highlighting that the key challenges the industry faced today in translating reserves to value were lack of adequate infrastructure, funding constraints for upstream, midstream and downstream sectors; and sub-optimal institutional and regulatory framework including extensive and bureaucratic process for obtaining licenses and approvals, weak corporate governance and policy inconsistencies, Besides, he said uncertainties around changes in fiscal framework, local community crisis, mismatch in currency (gas revenue in Naira versus costs in Unit ed States Dollar), and Domestic Supply Obligation (DSO) gas pricing constraints were other prevailing challenges. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He added that growth in gas demand was widespread, increasing in some countries and regions; of which the increase is driven in broadly equal amounts by use in power and industry. He said: “Africa’s natural gas production, demand and exports are poised to accelerate, led by Mozambique, Nigeria and Egypt. Gas is the only fossil fuel expected to grow through 2035. Global gas demand is expected to grow at 0.9 per cent per annum between 2018 – 2035 driven by many regions’ power/ gas-intensive industry and China’s residential/commercial sectors citing McKinsey report, 2019. “The continent can fuel economy four-times larger than today with only 50 per cent more energy driven by a major shift towards energy sources such as renewables and natural gas and efficiency improvements. “Stated policies scenario reflects the impact of existing policy frameworks and today’s announced policy intentions. The aim is to hold up a mirror to the plans of today’s policy makers and illustrate their consequences for energy use, emissions and energy security.” The Africa Case Scenario, he noted, was built on the premise of “Agenda 2063,” established by the Heads of State and Governments of the African Union in 2015.