Dan Abia; Francis Onoiribholo; NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE; Bolu-Olu Esho Less than a week after the inauguration of the Chief Bisi Akande-led reconciliation committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to reconcile feuding party members across the country, factional leaders in some state chapters have started singing discordant tunes. The situation has made many party faithful to believe that the committee may not fulfill its mission, particularly the decision by some of the feuding leaders not to shift grounds or allow reasons to prevail in the party. Amaechi, Abe In Bitter Struggle In Rivers For instance, in Rivers State where Rotimi Amaechi is locked up in a bitter struggle over the control of the party with Senator Magnus Abe, a former aspirant in the 2019 governorship election, the committee may find its work very difficult to accomplish. Speaking exclusively with our correspondent in Port Harcourt via telephone, Abe was skeptical about the question of reconciliation by the party leadership. He said, “I have the greatest respect for Chief Bisi Akande, who over the years has been a father, a leader and a statesman. He has a lot of integrity and I respect him for that. “Having said that, I will not want to talk about the reconciliation now until I meet with my team. This is not a personal thing. We have to meet as a team so that we decide on what position to take on this. “But we have not received any information to the effect that any reconciliation team is visiting the state. As I said earlier, my team will meet to take a position on this. Again, I have the greatest respect for Chief Bisi Akande,” he said. On his part, a chieftain of the party, Sogbeye Eli, an ally of Amaechi, said though, he was interested in knowing the composition of the Akande committee, it was important the party conduct its congresses in the state first before any form of reconciliation. “We will not object to any altruistic move for true reconciliation. We will submit to the rules of the party. But I think that we have to conduct congresses first and whoever is not satisfied with the outcome of the congress can now seek redress. “We need the congress so that APC will become a voice that can check the excesses of the ruling PDP in Rivers State. I think that any move that will not lead to the conduct of congress so that we have a structure in the state will not go well,” he noted. No Retreat, No Surrender – Aguma Meanwhile, another faction of the party in the state, which is generally referred to as ‘The Third Force’, led by Igo Aguma may not also back down for reconciliation. Aguma, a former member of the House of Representatives, vowed not to withdraw his case against the party from the Federal High Court until Amaechi steps down as the leader of the party in Rivers State. Aguma was a strong ally of Amaechi but fell out on reason suspected to be leadership tussle in the party hierarchy. Akande Walks A Tight Rope In Kwara, Ondo In Kwara State where Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq is not in good terms with the leadership of the party, particularly Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, the state chairman, Basher Omolaja Bolarinwa, the inclusion of the governor’s sister, Khairat Abdulrazak-Gwadabe, my jeopardize the work of the reconciliation committee. Already, some party leaders in the state who spoke on the condition of anonymity told Sunday Independent that they were skeptical about the ability of the committee to reunite the party in the state. “If what we are hearing is true, that Khairat Abdulrazak-Gwadabe, sister of the governor is part of the so-called committee, then it is hopeless. Are they aware the state governor has sidelined the authentic state chairman in favour of another person? “Can they deny that Gwadabe has no input in the decision to deal with the party leaders? We wish them luck, but you can predict a day from the morning. Very few people have confidence in the reconciliation committee, I must tell you,” one of the leaders said. The Bisi Akande committee was last week inaugurated after the former chairman and Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, was dropped following protest from some quarters, particularly, Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, who is in bitter battle with the national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, over the control of the party in the state. Members of the committee are Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Bello; Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola; Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase;  Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi; Tanko Al-Makura (a Senator); Kashim Shettima; Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor; Aliko Koki; Khairat Abdulrazak-Gwadabe; Binta Garba and John Enoh (secretary). The committee was tasked to “recognise the intra-party conflicts, misunderstanding in any of the 36 states. To identify those involved in the conflicts with the view to resolving the issues.” In Ondo State, the three factions differ on their willingness and confidence in the committee with the Unity Group led by former deputy governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi saying they do not have confidence in the committee and was not willing to submit themselves to the intervention of the committee. The Unity Group is opposed to the second term ambition of the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, who they accuse of running the affairs of the state with his family to the exclusion of other stakeholders in the party. Olanusi expressed doubt about the sincerity of the national leader (Akande) if given the opportunity to mediate in the crisis between chieftains of the party in the state and the state governor. It was expected that the group would welcome the headship of Akande being among the party’s national leaders from the South West who came in July 2019 to resolve the crisis during which resolutions were made. But, surprisingly, the group in a communiqué issued after rising from its emergency meeting in Akure, the state capital, indicted Akande of enjoying patronage of the governor, though it failed to substantiate its claim in the communiqué. The group faulted “the replacement of the Senate President with His Excellency Chief Bisi Akande as the Chairman of APC National Reconciliation Committee and passed vote of no confidence in Baba Akande as the Chairman of the Committee. “This is because the said Chief Bisi Akande is on the payroll of Ondo State Governor and Baba was part of the reconciliation committee that met with the party leadership in Ondo State in July, 2019 at Heritage Hotel, Akure, where it was agreed that the party executive in Ondo State be dissolved. “But up till this moment, the Governor through some of our leaders has been blocking the dissolution that was jointly agreed on in the presence of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, our National Leader, His Excellency Aremo Segun Osoba, Chief Bisi Akande, Chief Pius Akinyelure, His Excellency Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum and Pastor Bankole Oluwajana, the South West Chairman of All Progressives Congress.” The Olanusi-led group is insisting on the implementation of the resolutions handed down by the Tinubu-led reconciliation team in July last year. Meanwhile, another splinter group in the party in the state, Sunshine Mandate, has condemned the claim of The Unity Forum on the APC national leader. The group led by Ambassador Olusola Iji, the current Nigerian Ambassador to Togo, described the indictment as a “reckless and unwarranted attack on Chief Bisi Akande.” However, Governor Akeredolu said he was open to reconciliation with other feuding groups in the party, saying the party’s interest should be uppermost in the hearts of its members. Obaseki, Oshiomhole Endorse Committee In Edo State, both factions of the party loyal to Obaseki and Oshiomhole said they have confidence in the Akande-led committee. Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, a leader and loyalist of Oshiomhole, described the acceptance of the committee by the Edo State government as the beginning of a true reconciliation in the state chapter of the party. Ize-Iyamu, who spoke to Sunday Independent, said he was happy that the committee has been inaugurated by no less a person than the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. According to him, “I am also happy that those who said Adams Oshiomhole is suspended are also happy with the inauguration, so it means that gradually common sense, sanity is prevailing. “A meeting point is now coming, it would have been protracted if they have said we cannot recognise any committee that is inaugurated by a suspended National Chairman, but I think that they have realised that they do not have the right to suspend the National Chairman. So, they are now living with the fact that there is a national chairman and we are happy with the fact, and we are praying and hoping that they will allow the committee to do its work. “They tried to misrepresent me by saying that Pastor Ize-Iyamu is against the committee, how can I be against the committee? In any event, this problem started before I came into the party, I am not the cause of the problem; I met it, so how can I object to the inauguration of such a committee? They are the ones that were objecting until sanity prevailed. “So, I am sure that at the appropriate time because the committee’s mandate is not just Edo, I am sure that sooner than later they will attend to Edo and people will be able to submit their memoranda and appear before them, and then we hope that finally peace will come because for me I really cannot explain the rationale for throwing bombs, shooting to kill or for stopping somebody like Pastor Ize-Iyamu from coming into the party. “I do not intend to submit any petition I will rather allow peace to reign, the complaints are already too much I will not add my own, only just to say that let us be our brother’s keeper, let us love one another, let us understand that this party belongs to all of us,” he said. Barrister Anselm Ojezua, the factional state chairman of the party said, “We are open to reconciliation as we have said because of our respect for the institution and the person of the President of the Federal Republic, who is the leader of the party and has established this committee with a chairman that we respect so much. “Chief Bisi Akande is not just a leader, he is one of the founders of this party and I believe he knows the implications of what is at stake both for the party and for his own integrity. So, I am very confident that if they do what they ought to do, we may yet be able to salvage the situation.”