Lagos – On Sunday, September 8, 2019, Nigeria men’s senior basketball team, D’Tigers became the first team sport to secure a ticket to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games after defeating China 86-73 in their last classification game of the 2019 FIBA Men World Cup. Playing against China, who also need the win to qualify for the Games; D’Tigers ensured that Nigeria would not have to start planning how to navigate the Olympic qualifying Tournament with the win. Former Head Coach of the team, Alex Nwora described the win as a sweet victory which was enough to compensate the team for missing out of a place in the quarter finals. Minister of Sports, Dare Sunday, immediately after the win in a phone conversation congratulated them for the win which has elevated the status of Nigerian sports globally. Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) President, Ahmed Musa Kida said the Olympics ticket and the boys’ performance was a testament to hard work of the board and the technical crew. And on Saturday, February 8, 2020, at the Olympic qualifying Tournament in Belgrade, Serbia, D’Tigress booked their ticket to the 2020 Olympics despite losing to host-Serbia in their second group game 64-70. Mozambique’s quest to qualify ahead of Nigeria suffered a heavy knock following their scandalously 49-124 points loss to USA, their second loss in the qualifying tournament. Mozambique had lost 51-85 to Nigeria in their opening game. Following their second loss, D’Tigress picked one of the two Olympics tickets on offer as Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) set another enviable record of being the only federation in Nigeria to have two teams at the Olympics at the same time. D’Tigress ended their FIBA Olympics Qualifiers Tournament on a high despite a narrow 71-76 point loss to world champions- USA at the Aleksandar Nikolic Hall, Belgrade, Serbia. Inspired by Otis Hughley, the team came out determined to prove a point and show the world that they could compete with anybody in the world as they put up a performance that many will talk about for a very long time to come. In their game against USA, D’Tigress won the first half, 21-20, 19-6 as they went into half time 40-26 points which many across the world will find hard to believe for a long time to come. USA came out fighting in the third quarter to narrowly pick the game 24-17 as the D’Tigress held on to seven point lead heading to the last quarter where USA completed their comeback. Ezinne Kalu who was voted as one of the group’s top five players alongside Ana Debovic (Serbia), Leia Dongue (Mozambique), A’ja Wilson (USA) and Nneka Ogwumike (USA) once again led the team with 17pts, eight assists and four rebounds. Victoria Macaulay had 12 points, six rebounds and one assist while Evelyn Akhator after failing to score against Serbia on match day 2 dropped 10 points and four rebounds. Despite the height disadvantage of the D’Tigress, the team out-rebounded USA after collectively picking 43 rebounds as against 36 rebounds by USA. Nigeria also stole the ball 13 times as against five by their opponent. Many are still wondering how the two teams picked the Olympics tickets against all odds and what might have contributed to their success story. From the onset of the coming on board of the NBBF under the leadership of Kida, four key factors were identified as their goals for the development of the game in the country.  The factors are planning; funding; commitment and dedication. All these were against the backdrop of the crisis within the federation after the emergence of Kida as President. There is no doubt that planning really played out as the most factors that aided the qualification of the teams. The NBBF ensured that proper planning were in place for the teams ahead of their qualifiers and it manifested. The leadership also got the commitment of the players to play their hearts out for the country with the assurance that their future is secured. This endowed the dedication of the players at the series of tournaments they engaged in for the country enroute their qualification for the Olympics. It should be noted that the division in the sport even got to the players when Kida was elected president in 2017. Several players that won the Afrobasket title in 2015 boycotted the defence of the title in Tunisia 2017 because the new helmsmen were regarded as ‘enemies’. But Kida, having decided to work with those who were ready to work with him reached out to the players and gave them what they want, assurances. For his desire to ensure that Nigeria really lived up to its potentials at the world stage is beginning to manifest with the way he is going about the national teams. Personally, he ensured that Nigeria’s qualification for the World Cup in China was done amidst pump and pageantry. The country hosted two of the qualifying tournament running into millions of Naira and he personally footed the bill. The team’s preparation and participation at the World Cup was at his instance. In fact, in an interview, he confessed to have personally spent close to N2 billion. He did not stop at that. He went on to get an American, Otis Hughley jr. for the D’Tigress and the team reached the quarterfinal of the Women’s FIBA World Cup in Spain in 2018, aside winning the Afronbasket back to back in 2017 and 2019. The latest of his effort is getting Mike Brown, an NBA coach to lead D’Tigers to the 2020 Olympics. Who foots the bill? Kida of course. With his personal commitment running into billions of Naira, and is still continuing. After the qualification of D’Tigers, Kida said he was proud of the team. “Mind you, they (D’Tigers) won in front of the home team, China. So, again, it’s not an easy feat. You can see the Nigerian spirit in them. I’m so proud of these boys”. According to him, the team’s performance was a reflection of the basketball revolution in Nigeria. “Well, basketball in Nigeria has come to stay. Like I always told you, we are out to shock the world,” an obviously elated Kida said, adding that he’s not surprised over the D’Tigers’ achievement. “So, I’m not surprised that our boys have gone out with the Nigerian spirit, like I always say, fought very hard, played very hard, defended very well and won,” he said. “So, again, it just shows a new turn of things for the game and sports. The ministry has a good care for sports performance now,” Kida explained. From Kida’s views, determination and hard work saw the team through, which according to him were part of the secrets behind the team’s success. The NBBF has however traced the qualification of D’Tigress to the immense support of President Muhammadu Buhari , Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, and millions of Nigerian basketball lovers all over the world. The board said without the support of the Federal Government, prosecuting the qualifiers would have been difficult. Kida, said, “We thank the President for his fatherly role and support all through this journey to book an Olympic Games ticket. The minister also played a major role through his timely interventions, encouragement and the keen interest he developed towards basketball in Nigeria since assuming office.” Kida also praised the fans for their support for D’Tigers and D’Tigress all through the qualifiers. “This long journey was made easier by the fans that showed resilience and were relentless in their support for the two national teams. I am overwhelmed by the number of calls and text messages I have received since the teams qualified.” Meanwhile, Dare has promised that adequate arrangements would be put in place to prepare the team for the 2020 Olympics as they continue their journey in making history. Commending D’Tigress for their efforts, Nigerian basketball coach, Lateef Erinfolami, said the players have really done the country proud. “I must commend the players for their feats which is a good development for the game in the country. We all must admit that they have done us proud and we should be proud of them,” said Erinfolami, himself a former national team player. “We are so happy about this progress in the team which also shows that the girls are gradually joining the best teams in the world stage.”