I must
confess that I did not, and still do not, know what to make of President
Muhammadu Bu­hari’s speech at the launch of two helicopter gunships on
Thursday. I find perplexing the portion where he said: “I promised to put an
end to Boko Haram insurgency, kidnapping and other forms of criminalities that
have bedevilled our country during my inaugural speech as President. “You
will all agree with me that the successes we have achieved so far have restored
our pride and honour the world over. Consequently, I want to sincerely thank
Nigerians for be­lieving in our government in spite of occasional outrages,
coming together as a nation, irrespective of political, religious and ethnic
affiliations, in our strive to bring this menace to an end.’’ Why did
Buhari indulge in that characteristic but unmerited tri­umphalism that has
become the hallmark of both his administration and his APC party? Hey, how did
he manage to forget that just a few days ago, the Christian Association of
Nigeria (CAN) members took to the streets to protest that life has become
terribly cheap as insurgents kill wan­tonly and the security agents appear
helpless? Even the usually calm and very sober Pastor Enoch Adeboye joined the
protest. Kai! As though that was not enough, the Sultan of Sokoto himself read
the communiqué of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islam­ic Affairs (NSCIA)
which asked Bu­hari to declare a state of emergency on security because
insecurity has reached a frightening level. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network So, it
will be apt to declare that our pride and honour have NOT BEEN RESTORED whether
in Nigeria or anywhere let alone the WORLD OVER. Or has Nigeria not been ranked
as the globe’s most terrorised nation, after Iraq and Afghanistan? We have
retained that position since 2015. Other countries in the top 10 rank are
Syria, Pakistan, Somalia, India, Yemen, Philippines and they account for 87% of
deaths from ter­rorism in 2018. Nigeria accounted for 13%. As
Buhari did not specify which inaugural speech he was referring to, I was
sentenced to search for his two inaugural speeches, instead of one. In 2015, he
mentioned Boko Haram and insecurity in four different para­graphs: First, “My
appeal for unity is predicated on the seriousness of the legacy we are getting
into. With depleted foreign reserves, falling oil prices, leakages and debts
the Nige­rian economy is in deep trouble and will require careful management to
bring it round and to tackle the immediate challenges confronting us, namely;
Boko Haram, the Niger Delta situation, the power shortages and unemployment
especially among young people…” My comments: apart from Boko Haram, so Buhari
knew in 2015 that huge debt load would harm the economy, if so why has he been
increasing the debt overhang? Second
paragraph from his 2015 inaugural speech: “The most imme­diate is Boko Haram’s
insurgency…. The command centre will be relocat­ed to Maiduguri and remain
until Boko Haram is completely subdued. But we cannot claim to have defeat­ed
Boko Haram without rescuing the Chibok girls and all other inno­cent persons
held hostage by insur­gents”. My comment: the Command and Control Centre was
relocated to Maiduguri, kudos to the President on that. On rescuing the Chibok
girls, Al Jazeera reported April 14, 2019: “Five years after the Boko Haram
attack, more than 112 girls are still missing. They (the government) are not
talking about our girls anymore. They are acting as if they are happy about
what happened to us,” Enock Mark, whose two daughters are still missing,
told Al Jazeera. “We have lost hope in the government helping us. They have not
shown any serious interest in ensuring that our daugh­ters are found. It looks
like it was done intentionally. They don’t care about us anymore,” he
said. According
to the Al Jazeera report, “In recent years, the Nigerian gov­ernment has come
under immense criticism for doing very little to free the Chibok girls.
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari promised to crush Boko Haram during his
first term election campaign in 2015. But his
administration has failed to end the decade-long violence, with increasing
attacks on military bases and strategic towns. Most of
the advocacy groups that pleaded for the release of the girls have however gone
quiet. Bring
Back Our Girls (BBOG) has kept the campaign going, but the group has become
smaller, seemingly having lost its punch. It is
quite challenging to sustain a singular core demand – #BringBack­OurGirls –
when facing a government that has taken up a disinterested and hostile stance
for almost five years,” spokesperson of the Bring Back Our Girls group,
Nifemi Onifade, told Al Jazeera. So, why
did Buhari gloat: “You will all agree with me that the suc­cesses we have
achieved so far have restored our pride and honour the world over”? From the
same 2015 inaugural speech: Buhari sang the blame Jona­than song; “through
official bungling, negligence, complacency or collusion Boko Haram became a
terrifying force taking tens of thousands of lives and capturing several towns
and villages covering swathes of Nigerian sovereign territory”. Now, in 2020, Buhari is the one
be­ing blamed, no longer his predecessor. We must grant that Boko Haram con­trols
no real territory but also accept the fact that it is now a formidable kill­ing
machine while banditry and kid­napping have become commonplace. In the same 2015 speech Buhari
said “Boko Haram is not only the se­curity issue bedeviling our country. The
spate of kidnappings, armed rob­beries, herdsmen/farmers clashes, cattle
rustlings all help to add to the general air of insecurity in our land. We are
going to erect and maintain an efficient, disciplined people – friend­ly and
well – compensated security forces within an over – all security architecture.” Empty words; all the indices of
insecurity have worsened under Bu­hari as they did even under former President
Jonathan beyond their mark under Yar’Adua. Yet, during Jonathan’s
administration, our roads had not turned into today’s battle fields,
Abuja-Kaduna road had not become more dangerous than a landmine-infested field
and killer (suspected) herdsmen had not become the audacious killer army it is
today nationwide, but especially in the Middle Belt. Yet, Buhari said in his 2019
inaugu­ration: “When, therefore we came to office in 2015 after a decade of
strug­gle we identified three cardinal and existential challenges our country
faced and made them our campaign focus, namely security, economy and fighting
corruption. None but the most partisan will dispute that in the last four years
we have made solid progress in addressing these challenges”. Yet, in the same speech, he
played down the security challenges thus: “Admittedly, some of the challenges
still remain in kidnappings and ban­ditry in some rural areas. The great
difference between 2015 and today is that we are meeting these challenges with
superior strategy, firepower and resolve”, adding that “Terrorism and
insecurity are worldwide phenomena and even the best policed countries are
experiencing increasing inci­dents of unrest and are finding things hard to
cope”. Ah ha! Why didn’t he know that
in 2015 when he was blaming his pre­decessor? Surprisingly, the President was
silent on the really important thing: the result of the “greater sup­port to
the security forces in terms of money, equipment and improved local
intelligence”. In what way have they benefitted Nigeria? The recent execution of CAN
chairman in Michika Local Gov­ernment Area of Adamawa State, Rev. Lawan Andimi,
on January 21 and the discovery of the bodies of two kidnap victims, a
seminarian, 18-year-old Michael Nnadi and the wife of a Kaduna-based medical
doc­tor, Philip Ataga, should shock us all into realising that Nigeria is in a
deep hole and should dig itself out. This is not a time for self-praise by the
President. Luckily, Mrs. Ataga’s chil­dren have been released, but have we
spared a thought for what they have been through and that they have been
terribly scarred for life? A day after Buhari’s speech,
Dr. Ju­naid Mohammed reacted: “I wish Ni­gerians were one with the President
and the Chief of Air Staff, given what they have been going through since 2009.
I think it takes more than just mere words or statements from either the
Service Chiefs or the President for them to be assured that the long national
nightmare of Boko Haram is over. It is not over until it is over and Nigerians
will want to see the result of its being over. If that does not hap­pen,
Nigerians are just going to listen to these words of hope. Nobody wants to see
Boko Haram succeed over the federal might or over the rest of the country. As
far as I am concerned, I take it with a pinch of salt. When it happens, then I
will see it has hap­pened.” We are seeing the evaporation
of the propaganda that President Mu­hammadu Buhari administration has
“degraded” Boko Haram insurgency and general national insecurity. For years,
the military brass hearts and other security outfit heads have been singing one
single tune; that Boko haram has been “degraded”. The In­formation Minister
kept informing us about the extent of that degradation and kept heaping praises
upon his party, the APC and the President. In those intervening years since
President Buhari’s first inauguration, anybody who challenged Mr. Lai Mo­hammed
about the quality of the deg­radation was termed a heresy bear­ing saboteur. If
that word, “degrade”, which has enchanted the souls of the members of the
Buhari administra­tion is the same English word which came from Latin – “de”
(down or away from) and “gradus” step of grade to form the Latin word
“degradare” to today’s “degrade” in English, it would mean that Boko Haram has
been broken down or has deteriorated, its capacity to inflict any sort of
damage considerably reduced, or even that it’s vitality has been reduced to the
extent that it has disintegrated. Well, both Buhari and the APC
now know that insecurity is rife in the entire nation. When the Presiden­cy
pleaded “surprise”, the leadership of the APC-controlled National As­sembly
went to Aso Rock to tell him that his surprise was misplaced. Then, the leaders
of the Christian faith, uncharacteristically, began to march in protest. Yet,
if most Nige­rians knew long ago that the Service Chiefs have been infective,
why does Buhari still retain them despite the loud cries for their replacement?
Why has he so disdained the people that he failed to listen to their cries that
his efforts to contain the insecurity in the land have been most ineffective?
And then, to show that those crying wolf have a genuine reason, that same cry
was heard from a most unanticipated source; the Nigerian Supreme Coun­cil for
Islamic Affairs. When the Council requested that Buhari upped the ante
by declaring a state of emergency on the general insecurity in the land, I
wondered why it did not occur to the Coun­cil that if the same set of Security
Chiefs, with the same mind-set, will supervise the state of emergency, it would
be of no effect. I still wonder. But I have to end the questions here before it
would basically and logically touch on the Mother of all Questions: What
informed President Buhari’s re-election; after all he was initially elected to
fulfill his electoral promise of keeping the nation safe from Boko Haram and
sundry insurgents? And who opposed Boko Haram’s being declared a terrorist
organisation early in the day? And I still ask: what happened to Kabiru Sokoto?
If he has been tried and found innocent, he should be released and the nation
duly informed!!!