Over the past few weeks, the fluctuating nature of local internet services has left several subscribers and business owners at their wits end, due to the disruptions to their business operations or their e-commerce activities. Analysts posit that the challenges being experienced by Point of Sale (PoS) and Automated Teller Machine (ATM) users in Nigeria can be linked to slow internet service and foreign hosting in the country. The biggest casualties of the down time due to some offshore submarine cable cuts have been Nigerian banks, e-commerce businesses and Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMES). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The banks have seen a notable increase in the number of failed transactions and some platforms have been off-line intermittently as a result. Industry experts suggest that the failure to develop our local Internet ecosystem and foreign hosting of payment platforms or critical services are the two major factors affecting the ability to complete online transactions in Nigeria and if care is not taken, the situation may get worse. Speaking with Olusola Teniola, President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), reiterated the need to have the country’s domain hosted in Nigeria. Teniola said that most of the technological interruptions being experienced in Nigeria by Nigerians are as a result of dependence on foreign interventions, which according to him are detrimental to the country’s security and business operations. According to him, “There is no gainsaying that Nigeria needs to localise her data. There is urgent need for the intergration of all sectors of the economy on a single local base. Our pension service, banking industry, tertiary institutions among others must be on an integrated data base for easy response in case of any emergency, particular undersea cable fibre cut. “The delayed process of rectifying such an issue will definitely cause internet downtime and other forms of interruption that affect PoS and ATM services. The way out is to ensure that our data veer is with the local Internet Service Providers (ISP).” Point of Sale (POS) machine performs well, but sometimes, there are network issues which could hinder sales, especially after a heavy rainfall. Some clients fear to go back to where they had had transaction challenges before. High quality network is still an issue because if the issue of cashless policy is to be effective, then the banks and network service providers have to be on top of their game. While some banks and retail consumers were affected by the down time due to the recorded submarine cable cuts of SAT3 and WACS, other global organizations such as Google and Facebook amongst others were still able to provide their Nigeria customers content, simply because they had localised their data in local data centers while also connecting to local internet exchanges like IXPN and WAFIX. While their links to their major nodes were also impacted by the submarine cuts, they were able to quickly recover based on diverse routes to which they subscribed or by routing traffic to other cables. Though connectivity played a big part in customers’ irritation due to limited access to certain services or delayed transactions, businesses in a country as large as Nigeria cannot underestimate the crucial benefit of local hosting and proximity of their data and transaction engines to the customers they serve. This is especially so for banks, e-commerce businesses and government agencies which increasingly rely on online engines to deliver services. There is the need to enable disaster recovery and seamless business continuity in the face of service disruptions in and outside the country, which would have been hugely beneficial to their business operations.