Chief Hope Erute is a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Delta State. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he spoke on his party’s zoning arrangement in the state, which he said, favours the Urhobo to produce the next governor of the state. Excerpt: 2023 is still three years away, but the polity appears heated up already over which senatorial district or ethnic nationality will produce the next governorship of the state. What is your view on this? Well, you didn’t tell me those who have come out already. But, let’s assume that we know them, especially those that are doing consultations. They are only raising the stakes so that the perceived young lads who can challenge them, who have the capacity to take us to the Promised Land, will not come out. One of the reasons behind parties raising the price of forms to N20 million, N50 million as the case may be, is because the young men who have been adequately trained, with capacity to run a government, will not have the chance. These old politicians, even though some of them may be young, they are already approaching 60. They have been eating money since they were 25. So, we can classify them as old people. These are the people we hope to change. So, to intimidate any of the young ones that are willing to go into the race, they start early, as early as four years away. In fact, immediately Okowa won election, they started consultations for 2023. They are doing this to make it difficult for the young ones and force them to cave in and leave the stage for them. But, we are saying no, we have our strategies. It is really too early for them to come out, but we know why they have come out. We are not intimidated. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network PDP has zoned the 2023 governorship to Delta Central, Which of the three local governments, Uvwie, Okpe, Sapele should the slot go to? PDP believes in zoning. That is why it will be coming to the Uvwie, Okpe, Sapele local government areas which form the third federal constituency. Of course, I agree with anybody in this zone that is fighting for the governorship to be zoned to Uvwie, Okpe Sapele federal constituency. I am with them 100 percent and that is true. Equity is what we are looking for. But, equity should be done within the federal constituency. In fact, Okpe and Sapele local government areas are one. They are all Okpe people. So, it is between Uvwie and Okpe. Uvwie is one. The fact that they have two local government areas is not enough for them to think that the governorship should be left for them. The argument does not hold water. Then again, if you look at the current government from 2015 till date, the Uvwie man is just holding a nominal position. Only one commissioner came from there. May be because Okpe has two local government areas, their slots are always doubled. So, our brothers in Okpe have been commissioners, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Special Advisers, father of government and all of those things. May be, if the only position left is the governorship, then it should be for the Uvwie man so that we can have a sense of belonging. If an Okpe man is in a place, it is also an Uvwie man that is there. Also, if it is an Uvwie man is in a place, it is also the Okpe man that is there because we belong to the same ancestry. What I am saying is that they should consider conceding the governorship to an Uvwie man. Assuming the Ijaw continues to mount pressure to produce the next governor and the zoning arrangement is jettisoned, what other option is available for the Urhobo? Take note that zoning is not actually a constitutional matter. It is an in-house thing. So, if they say they are putting away this in-house arrangement, then they are opening the gate for all sorts of things to happen. Sometimes when we say things as they are, we are accused that our loyalty has been divided. I have been in the PDP since 1998. But, I have not held any political office just because I don’t believe I should force myself on people. If the Ijaw say they no longer respect the zoning by senatorial arrangement, so be it. They have so much money in their vaults. In fact, one Ijaw man can pay the whole of Delta Central. But, they will be disappointed. That will bring division in the body politics of Delta State, which Okowa is attempting to build and make strong. Perhaps, Okowa holds the ace now to begin to warn that the subsisting zoning arrangement must remain sacrosanct. Any of those who will be threatening this arrangement should be sanctioned. Looking at the scenario from the angle of opposition party, although APC performed poorly in 2019 election, should PDP throw way the zoning arrangement, what are the chances of your party against the opposition? Honestly, Delta State is PDP and PDP is Delta State. But, unless PDP sticks to its zoning arrangement as it is now, they may not make it in 2023. If we stick to the zoning arrangement and we give it to Delta Central and thereafter to Delta South and to Delta North as it is now, then, there will be no place for the opposition to penetrate. But, if you dare to destabilise and discountenance this plan and tell us you have so much money, you will be inadvertently breaking down the house in such a way that our opponents will have an incursion into the place. You can’t have more money than the Federal Government. Buhari is just pretending not to spend money, people under him are spendthrifts. Like somebody said, the fish gets rotten from the head. But, in the present Buhari regime, the head is not rotten, but the body is. The success of the PDP will depend largely on how we respect the zoning arrangement. Otherwise, it is not like before 2019 when there were no alternatives. Whether or not you like it, there is a ruling party at the national level and there is a ruling party. PDP is now in opposition. The ruling party wants to take over Delta State. So, we need to keep our house closely and one of the signs that we are keeping our house closely is our respect for the zoning arrangement. If not, should Delta South say they will challenge the zoning, it will be disastrous. Nigerians are getting to be more aware, nobody is voting along ethnic lines anymore. People will want to vote for progress. You also emphasise the effort of the incumbent governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, at trying to ensure the sanctity of the zoning arrangement. If the arrangement works, who do you think will be his choice? The first thing, like I said, is that he is very concerned about Delta being strong, even after him. One of the things that will negate his desire of making Delta strong will be allowing people to plunder the zoning arrangement. In fact, I have emphasised earlier that anybody who will distort the zoning arrangement should be sanctioned. He should not waste time on that. Perhaps, he is still looking at it that 2023 is still very far away. This is the time to warn because we know that Delta South people are already doing consultations. Some of them, members of the National Assembly, are going round now doing consultations. They held a meeting a few weeks ago inside the Ex-Army Settlement here (in Effurun). Are they meeting to choose who to support, whereas the names have not come out? So, they should wait to see and try to join us. But, if they say no, then the governor should think twice, start to prune them, start to sanction them because what they are doing is capable of destroying the PDP.  