Osogbo – Osun State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed confidence in the ability of the Chief Adebisi Akande-led reconciliation committee to deliver on its mandate in resolving the leadership crisis between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor in office who is also the National Chairman of the party. State Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Kunle Oyatomi, while speaking on the issue, said that the new committee put in place by President Muhammadu Buhari composed of eminent political personalities that command respect from and within politicians especially of progressive extraction in the country. According to Oyatomi, “Those who are to be involved are eminent political personalities who command respect from and within politicians, especially of progressive extraction in the country. So it is a body that is capable of resolving any political crisis wherever.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He declared that Chief Adebisi Akande would not fail in the assignment even where it involved the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, adding that the committee would deliver on its mandate. It would be recalled that Edo State governor had rejected the committee earlier set up, saying Oshiomhole, who is party to the crisis in the state, could not constitute a committee to reconcile aggrieved members in the state. The National Reconciliation Committee set up in accordance with the directive of the National Executive Committee of the party was to be chaired by President of the Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan, but was never inaugurated. But the 12 man committee to be headed by the pioneer National Chairman of APC and former Governor of Osun State, Akande, was accepted by both parties involved in the crisis. President Muhammadu Buhari reviewed the membership of the party’s National Reconciliation Committee. “The committee is empowered to address grievances of party members across the country and resolve existing conflicts, all with a view to fostering oneness, strengthen the party for better governance and ensure unity of purpose within the party.”