Simba Group, distributors of Luminous power back up solutions including inverters, batteries and solar powered systems, have unveiled a ‘first of its kind’ Luminous Solar Tall Tubular battery into the Nigerian market. The battery which is optimised for solar applications is made with patented technologies to offer fast charging and long power- backup. Mr Ravi Srivastava, Business Head – Simba Power Products, speaking during the unveiling of the product held at the company’s corporate office in Lagos, said: “We at Simba are delighted to launch the Luminous Solar Tall Tubular battery, made with patented alloys and manufactured to the highest standards. This is the first tubular battery with 24 months warranty in Nigeria. “At Simba, we are passionate about the drive to consistently deliver innovative products and services across the country. Recently, we were the first in Nigeria to introduce the paperless warranty system, our mobile app for customers and our e-training platform for electricians who service our products. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network We believe that this Luminous Solar Tall Tubular battery, which lasts longer and charges quicker, will deliver ultimate value to our customers.” Also speaking at the event, Mr Karthik Govindarajan, Group Head – Marketing, Simba Group explained that “the driving force behind Simba has always been Affordability, Innovation and Service – the three pillars of our go-tomarket strategy. Some of our recent successes have been the Luminous DeLite, a value-optimised package comprising of an inverter, tubular battery and trolley sold at N99,000 only, which ensures access to the inverter solution for at all. “We also recently introduced the Regalia, an advanced wall-mounted system powered by Lithium- ion batteries, Wi-Fi enabled and solar-ready, to cater to the discerning user. All these amazing products are backup by our award-winning Simba Service – Africa’s largest inverter and battery service network offering 24/7 support to our customers. Simba Service is spread across 11 company-owned service centres, 31 partner service centres and has over 500 engineers and electricians across the country.