Awka – Onyiyechi Chukwudinka , aged 30, of Mbanagu Otolo Nnewi , Nnewi-North local government area of Anambra State, was a beneficiary of the rapid response activities of the Federal Road Safety Commission on Tuesday, 28th January, 2020, when she was involved in an accident at the Traffic Light axis of the area just before the local government secretariat . Chukwudinka, who would have been a dead woman was fortunate to have had a narrow escape from premature death when a petrol tanker containing premium motor spirit lost its brake and hit the motorcycle that was conveying her to her destination. While the cyclist scampered for safety, she was helpless at the accident spot but officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps rescued her and took her to the hospital where the FRSC ensured that she had the best of medical attention. Although the Federal Road Safety Commission had issued a report of the crash through its Public Relations Officer, RC Paschal Anigbo that there was no death but the story of Onyiyechi Chukwudinka would have been very pathetic, if the commission had not responded proactively. The report had it that a tanker, laden with PMS but with no visible Registration Number was reported to have crashed near the traffic light, along Nnewi- Otolo Road, Nnewi, at about 8.30am. The FRSC rescue team from Nnewi Unit Command got to the scene at 8.44am after receiving information about the crash at about 8.40am.The probable cause of the crash has been attributed to Speed Limit Violation (SPV). A total of four persons were involved, out of which one female adult was injured but there was no death. The injured victim was rushed to St. Felix Hospital. The Fire Service and other Sister Agencies were fully on ground, ensuring sanity in the area. The Sector Commander, CC Andrew Ayodele Kumapayi warns motorists to approach the area with caution and calls on all road users to always use the road responsibly, to avoid future occurrence. But when disaster was averted, officials of the commission embarked on humanitarian visit to the hospital where the victim was receiving treatments. On her hospital bed, the victim expressed profound gratitude to the Federal Road Safety Commission for saving her life on that fateful Tuesday morning. Chukwudinka, who spoke in Igbo language amidst pains  said, “the petrol tanker was coming right in front of us. The cyclist noticed the vehicle had lost its brakes. So he jumped out of the bike while the tanker hit me on my leg.” The lady said she was having severe pains on her leg but appealed to the Federal Road Safety Commission for some financial aid for her speedy recovery. However , the sector commander of the commission in Anambra State, CC Andrew Ayodele Kumapayi said the corps will not rest on its oars in the execution of its constitutional mandate of rapid response to road traffic crashes as well as ensure that fatalities were reduced to the barest minimum through its presence in all the nooks and crannies of the state.