ABUJA – More than three million girls are at risk of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) each year, and the number is expected to increase to 4.6 million in 2030 unless the country accelerates action to prevent the practice, WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, has warned. She added that, globally, FGM is estimated to have been performed on more than 200 million girls and women alive today. She made this known in her message to commemorate the 2020 International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), which is held every 6th of February with the theme: “Unleashing Youth Power: One Decade of Accelerating Actions for Zero Female Genital Mutilation by 2030”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The day is aimed to mobilize all stakeholders, particularly young people, to eliminate FGM in the next 10 years in line with the Sustainable Development Goals target 5.3. According to her, “The international community recognizes FGM as a human rights violation through several treaties. It has no health benefits and can result in significant health complications for the women and girls affected, as well as social consequences and an economic burden for health systems and society. “Eliminating FGM will require the full support of donors and decision-makers. To support the call for increased investment, at WHO, today we are launching an interactive FGM economic cost calculator. The tool visualizes the health and economic costs of FGM and the potential cost savings in implementing interventions to prevent it. The calculator is relevant to decision-makers, donors and communities, who can use its results to inform actions towards eliminating FGM. “In the African region, FGM occurs in 30 countries. We have seen progress – for instance, in Burkina Faso, Kenya, Liberia and Togo, FGM has decreased among girls aged 15 to 19 years over the past 30 years. However, collectively we need to do more to protect girls, women and communities from the harms associated with FGM”, she added. She, however, appealed to decision-makers, policy-makers, programme planners, and donors to use the new WHO calculator to inform decisions and invest more to eliminate FGM within a generation.