ABUJA – Leaders of thought from the Eco­nomic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) have deliberated on the closure of Nigeria’s land bor­ders with neighbouring communi­ties at the ongoing African Union Summit in Ethiopia. The discussions, which held on the sidelines of the meeting of ECOWAS Heads of State and Gov­ernment, prompted them to consti­tute a committee headed by Presi­dent Roch Marc Christian Kabore of Burkina Faso. Kabore committee has a mandate to study and make a
full report on Nigeria’s land border closure with her neigh­bours. Recall that Nigeria shut her borders to
neighbouring countries on the grounds that illegal arms used in executing
terrorism was being brought into the country through the borders, as well as
contraband which were also stifling the lo­cal industry. The decision to set up the committee was
agreed on Sunday night in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, at an extraordinary session of
ECOWAS leaders convened on the margins of the 33rd AU Summit to dis­cuss the
issue and other press­ing regional matters. Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, Geoffrey
Onyeama, told jour­nalists after the three-hour closed door session that the
meeting attended by Pres­ident Buhari and chaired by the ECOWAS chairman,
President Mahamadou Is­soufou of Niger Republic, also discussed West Africa’s
new single currency, the Eco, and the situation in Guinea Bissau after the
presidential election. On border closure, Onyea­ma said: “The president of Burkina Faso
is charged with undertaking a full study of the situation, make a report, and
then we’ll take it from there.” Asked when the report would be presented to ECOWAS Heads of
State and Government, the Nigerian minister replied: “As soon as possible,
there are no time­lines. But he is supposed to start very quickly, study the
situation from all the affect­ed countries, and present his report.” On the Eco currency, the Foreign Minister said: ‘‘Noth­ing has
changed in respect of Nigeria’s position.” He added that Nigeria’s position was that the conver­gence
criteria had not been met by majority of the coun­tries; therefore, there has
to be an extension of time on the take-off of the single cur­rency. On Guinea Bissau, the minister said ECOWAS leaders recognised that there was an appeal of the presidential election result and they were waiting for the Supreme Court’s deci­sion on the matter.