Roberts Moses Achanya is the Director General of Kogi State Bureau for Public Private Partnership. In this Interview with ONOJA AUDU OJOGBANE, he narrated what Governor Yahaya Bello has been doing to turn around the economic fortunes of Kogi state. Excerpts: As Director-General of Kogi state Bureau of Public Private Partnerships(PPP), What do you think Governor Bello administration has done  in the last 4 years to put Kogi economy on sound footing? Governor Yahaya Bello Administration in Kogi state has laid a solid Economic foundation for the people of the Confluence state Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Kogi state is one of Nigeria’s standout geopolitical entities as well as potential economic performing state. Between 2016 and 2019 last year, the administration of Governor Bello sought private sectors support for its comprehensive economic reform programmes, funding its ambitious but innovative infrastructure   plan as well as other socio economic programs aimed at reducing the poverty rate in the state. I can authoritatively tell you that between 2016 and 2019 significant progress was made in the area of the implementation of the government’s Five Point socio-economic blueprint under the administration of Governor Bello. The economic programmes of the Yahaya Bello administration has survived tumultuous period with deep seated aspiration to achieve high growth in the economy and to attain this height, the administration egg heads sought an economic policy that seeks to make that growth more inclusive with an eye on the next level of Bello administration. The second tenure of Bello administration that took off on January 27, 2020 begins an era that will boost the economy of the state and by extension make the economy to be more investment friendly. What is you expectation by the end of Bello second term in 2023 on the growth of the economy of the state? It may interest you to know that with a bolstered team including the suave and energetic Edward Onoja as the Deputy Governor, the turbo propelled next level fiscal policy of the administration will achieve the economic growth we envisioned for the new Kogi state. What should the people expect from the consolidation economic package of the next level government of Governor Bello? As part of the next level consolidation package of the administration, efforts would be made to improve on the Corporate and personal tax earnings to boost Internally Generated Revenue IGR of the state as it will help us to build a strong middle class, encourage investments into our economy and put more disposable income in the pockets of wage earners in the state The next level economic reform package will likewise help in supporting  the state’s infrastructure programme to keep pace with Kogi central national logistical hub vision, improve efficiency in the movement of goods and people from one part of the state to the other and across the state to neighboring states . It has the capacity to propel, and boost the state’s economy to thrive in a more competitive setting. To me, the economic reform package  will also  consider additional class rooms  for our children and hire more teachers and as well help us  to change our rural areas  and  commence necessary model transportation  system in the state. Other benefits derivable from the scheme, includes, irrigation of millions of hectares of agricultural land and provision of access roads for isolated and deeply located hinterlands and communities. Not left out of the reform package is the upgrading of additional hospitals and the establishment of new ones and as well achieve high percentage of primary health coverage with higher quality services. The package will also work towards the upgrading of several rural and urban health units to emergency resilient facilities and hiring of additional health professionals. Governor Yahaya Bello with his  team and Deputy Governor Chief Edward Onoja  are set to engender a reform package that  is expected to help fund the socio -economic  programmes of  the next level government, including the MSMEs ,targeted cash transfers, the new Eastern  link bridge to the South west(Agenebode-Idah-link bridge), the Blue Economy, Modernisation programme as well as the other Industrial projects in the Offing in the confluence state . What is the reason behind the establishment of the Bureau of Public Private Partnership (BP3) by the Bello administration in Kogi state? The establishment of Bureau of Public Private Partnership (BP3) by the Bello administration remains a smart development initiative through effective integration and interaction between government and the private institutions in the state, and this is hinged on the Bello administration’s understanding that there cannot be development without an active private sector participation to grow the economy. The success story of the policy in Kogi state in view of the success recorded in providing a structure and operational unit for PPP implementation and advisory by the administration makes it a viable option for sustained development. In the final analysis, and with options considered, the Bello administration will be launching a build, Build, Build Programme that will enable government undertake a massive infrastructure delivery programme without breaking the limits of fiscal discipline. The Bello second term administration that began in January 2020 leading up to 2023, from all intents and purposes, will usher in a golden age of infrastructure development for the benefit of the people of Kogi state through Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the confluence state. In your view, what are the key areas requiring improvement for the Nigerian investment management industry to attain their full potential? In my opinion, the ease of doing business policy is a good initiative from the government, especially the Visa on arrival in Nigeria’s major airports. However, to encourage Foreign Direct investment (FDI) into the country, corruption, rule of law, inadequate infrastructure, the severe regulatory role of government and the current macroeconomic uncertainty challenges need to improve in our business environment to attract investors into the country. Most importantly, the anti-corruption drive of the government needs to be stiffened. It is important to add that Nigeria can also key into the opportunity of leveraging on technology and innovation to improve social and economic outcomes across all sectors. By so doing, it will reduce the nation’s reliance on oil to attract investment and diversify the economy. Another major issue in Nigeria is electricity which has remained unsolved. It is a big challenge to manufacturers and majority of MSMEs. Without adequate electricity supply, it is extremely difficult to operate businesses successfully because these businesses usually end up committing revenue to generate alternative power supply like buying generators and fueling such generators on a daily basis. If the power concern is addressed in Nigerian, the big picture will be that micro; small and medium enterprises will do business, grow and contribute to sustainable economic activity, and create more jobs for the youths and also improve social inclusion. Investment is all about risk and reward. How do you convince investors that Nigeria is the place to put their money? The fact that there has been political stability and democratic governance since 1999 makes the country a desired investment destination. More so, Nigeria is home to consumer population and therefore remains an attractive investment destination despite the international media, which has created an incorrect perception of the Nigerian business environment as a difficult and unsafe nation. Nigeria still has the largest market in Africa with a population of approximately 200 million people. Despite all the concerns about the state of the economy, I would say that Nigeria offers tremendous opportunities for investors. Nigeria has the largest population in the African continent (estimated 200 million); the largest black population in the world; it is the second largest economy in Africa (with a GDP of over $300 billion); one of the highest growth rates in the world currently (6.7 per cent); accounts for over 50 per cent of the GDP of the West African sub-region; accounts for over 50 per cent of the population of the West African sub-region; blessed with abundant arable land. The current population of Western Africa is 394,314,367 as October 11, 2019, according to UN data. Nigeria population is equivalent to 50% of the total with population estimated at 200,963,599 people. What is your take on the performance of the governor since he became the number citizen in Kogi State? In consideration what is on ground, I think the governor has been doing well that one may not be wrong to say that he has been making giant strides in all sectors of the economy within four years of his first term in office. Let me say that his performance during his first term was in line with his re-election given the giant strides his administration recorded in the first term, and I am confident he will replicate his giant strides in the ongoing dispensation.