ABUJA – The Chairman Senate Committee on Public Procurement, Senator Shuaibu Lau, has said the current amendment of the Public Procurement Act 2007 by the National Assembly would address the challenges of avoidable delays and unnecessary cumbersome procurement processes and procedures. Speaking at the opening ceremony of 2020 Annual Public Procurement Retreat for Federal Permanent Secretaries in Kano State, Lau said the two cardinal principles of the agenda of 9th Senate were to return the annual budget circle from January to December, through timely but thorough passage of annual budget estimate and the amendment of the Public Procurement Act 2007. Lau represented by the Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Senator Ashiru Oyelola Yisa, expressed optimism that the retreat would be used to brainstorm, interact as well as develop far reaching resolutions on how to effectively and efficiently implement procurement under the new budget cycle. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In his goodwill message, the Chairman House Committee on Public Procurement, Nasir Ali Ahmed, said the forum would provide the rightful tools to participants in the course of deliberations, rubbing minds and sharing experiences that would best address perennial challenges in the procurement cycle. Ahmed also expressed the hope that the gathering would further afford the participants the opportunity to be well equipped, deepen their understanding of the process as well as evolve the best approach to the new budget implementation of 2020. While declaring the retreat open, Governor of Kano State, Dr, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, said public procurement should be the focus of every government as it is the fundamental aspect for good governance. Ganduje, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government of Kano State, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, said the colloquium was conceived to create a platform for high level discussions on the challenges in the implementation of the 2007 Procurement Act aimed towards entrenchment of public resources management, while also serving as induction and capacity building for newly appointed Federal Permanent Secretaries. The Governor affirmed that the collaborative efforts of the Bureau of Public Procurement and the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation was a testament of the efforts and commitment of the Federal Government to reform the public sector and set the country on the path of growth and development. Also speaking, the Acting Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, charged Permanent Secretaries to be proactive and employ necessary mechanism towards ensuring seamless implementation of the budget of their respective ministries and sustain the trajectory of the administration’s next level agenda.