ABEOKUTA – Sidi Osho, the Ogun State Education Commissioner-designate, has assumed office without taking the mandatory oaths of office, allegiance or secrecy. Sunday Independent gathered that Osho, who was dismissed at the state-owned Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye in 2016, assumed office on Monday, January 27. She was said to have moved round the ministry in company of other top ministry officials, to announce her assumption of office even while she was yet to be inaugurated. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She has, however, since then, been holding management meetings with the Permanent Secretary, Directors and other top officials of the ministry. Osho was also said to have started attending to other official duties, including endorsement of documents, files, and others. Several sources who confirmed her takeover, further explained that she most times resumes at the Governor’s Office, a stone throw away from the Education Ministry, and only comes around for official duties. As at the time of her assumption of office, Governor Dapo Abiodun was away in the United Kingdom with President Muhammadu Buhari to participate in the inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit. Osho was confirmed to have been dismissed from OOU by the management of the institution in 2016 for gross misconduct. It was further gathered that the dismissal bothered on allegations of financial misappropriation of a bakery project, which she superintended over, and absconding from service for about four years. Osho, who, it was gathered, did not appeal her dismissal, however, appealed to the Governing Council of the University few weeks ago, almost four years after, after her nomination as education commission. The Governing Council of the institution, however, turned down her appeal on the ground that she didn’t advance any reason for which the Council could reverse her dismissal or commute same to termination of appointment or withdrawal of service as allegedly contained in the appeal. The embattled dismissed academia, had promised to tell her side of the story only after she was done with her own investigation on the matter. Special Adviser to Governor Abiodun on Media, Remmy Hassan, on Friday, during a radio programme monitored by our Correspondent, confirmed that Osho had not been sworn-in. Hazzan, however, hinted that the government was still carrying out its internal investigation before taking a final decision on whether to retain Osho or otherwise. Meanwhile, a mild drama ensued on Friday during the convocation ceremony of OOU, as some pro-Osho students stormed the premises of the institution demanding her inauguration. The protesters stormed the newly constructed ICT building where Governor Abiodun later commissioned. The students led by Bamgbose Tomiwa Peters (NANs Chairman in the state) and Ogunrombi Gbemileke (NAOS National President) in their solidarity rally for Osho, said she was a “victim of dirty politics” and urged the governor not to yield to whoever that is opposed to her appointment.