The Ogun State Chief Judge, Justice Mosunmola Dipeolu, has charged magistrates in the state to be digitally conscious, as the world has gone beyond analogue in addressing issues of life.
Justice Dipeolu made this known at the opening address of training of magistrates on Digital and Evidence eDiscovery Law Practice in Nigeria, held at High Court Complex Hall, Kobape Road, Abeokuta.
She said that training and re-training of judiciary staff was a mojor focus of her administration, noting that since assumption of office as the Chief Judge of the state, it has been one of her cardinal principles to make continuous learning a priority.
She said “there are different training programmes for all cadres of staff; and I have tremendously increased the number of Judges that attended local and international courses.
“We have also just finished a day’s training for bailiffs, process servicers and litigation officers; and a 3-day first aid training is in the pipeline for all Judges and Magistrates, this is in addition to today’s training.”
She said that technology has revolutionized the method, ease, speed and time with which it conduct peoples’ activities, noting that business transactions were conducted faster, learning and teaching were richer, and the legal profession was generally better positioned, which should not lag behind.
“Indeed, we all know and pride ourselves with the fact that the legal profession is a conservative and traditional one, and these are virtues which must be preserved in order to maintain the prestige of the profession”, Justice Dipeolu said
She added that it was imperative for legal professions in relying more and more, on technology tools like electronic law reports and virtual case management tools, noting that shift in technology has led to the emergence of a new kind of evidence, being digital evidence resulting from Electronically Stored Information (ESI).
She said electronic discovery was a procedure by which parties involved in a legal case, preserve, collect, review and exchange information in electronic formats for the purpose of using it as evidence, noting that digital evidence and e-discovery procedure must thus be considered within the context of advancement in science and technology.
In his welcome address, the Chairman Judiciary Training Committee, Justice Olarewaju Mabekoje said that it was rare opportunity for the state judiciary service in constituting such training for the member of staff, noting that it would aid and improve their performances and productivities.
He said that the training of magistrates on digital evidence and e-discovery law practice would also assist in wasting of human hour and capacity, noting that it was a way of moving from analogue to the electronics device in tackling litigation issues and dispensation of justice in the state.