The wait has finally come for the last lap of the 2019/2020 Professional Golfers Association (PGA) of Nigeria Qualifying School final exercise scheduled for the Port Harcourt Golf Club in Rivers State.
However, about 80 to 100 golfers from across the country are expected to participate in the exercise which will tee off from February 17 to end on 22; it involves classroom – mental exercise and practical work on the course.
Jide Bolaji, PGA of Nigeria Secretary General dwelling on the final preparations on Thursday affirmed, “The number of participants is very likely to rise above the present figure we have at the moment, which is going to 90.”
“A lot of people would want to register during the accreditation exercise; these are people who, in the Nigerian style like what is called “fire brigade approach” in almost every event as this,” he said.
He however assured that all participants will be carried along as the association stands for the interests of everyone without any form of discrimination, but for the promotion of the game in the country.
“We will allow participants the ample time to get themselves prepared for the exercise; it’s for the interest of the players that the association is existing; it implies that until deadline everyone will be allowed time to do the needful – complete all registration formalities.
Samson Lawal, Director PGA of Nigeria also speaking harped on the need for the participants to maintain a good level of discipline which is the hallmark of golf the game.
“This is one exercise in golf that will determine how much level of understanding and discipline intending professionals have imbibed on the course of their training ahead of turning a professional. But, I want to believe they can do better in this dispensation as they have always done,” Lawal said.
Isife Godsmark of Enugu Golf Club who lost in the last dispensation believes he has a chance to make it up this year as he has been preparing for it.
“I missed the chance of making it last year in the 2018/2019 session, but this time around I can’t afford not to make it. I have been training hard ahead of the event and by God’s Grace I’ll make it,” he said.
Tina Micah, from Lamingo Golf Club, Jos is one of the women gunning for history in the PGA of Nigeria event and has also assured she is prepared for the exercise.
“I’ll be very, very happy to become one of the first women who passed through the PGA of Nigeria for a professional career; it has been my dream and I’m very optimistic the dream will come true this time around,” Micah said.
Joseph Taouk, the Captain of Port Harcourt Golf Club in Rivers State meanwhile, has earlier assured of a blissful hosting ahead of the event adding that all logistics have been put in place.