Mr. Fola Tinubu is the Managing Director of Primero Transport Services Limited. In this interview with Folake Sokoya, he spoke on the urgent need for the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) stakeholders meeting in other to have the best transportation services in Lagos State. There is this misconception that both the red and blue buses popularly known and called BRT are the same and owned by the Lagos State Government. Can you tell us who the owner of Primero really is? First of all, the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) are the blue coloured buses that is operated by Primero and are regulated by LAMATA while the red coloured buses are the Lag buses and are not regulated by LAMATA but people just call all of them BRT. The Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) is a private public partnership. The buses are owned by a company called Primero services; government doesn’t have any single share in Primero Company. It is an hundred percent privately owned company but we have a symbiotic relationship with Lagos State government because they provided the infrastructure and for that we are paying a portion of our revenue to them. Lagos State also regulates Primero through LAMATA. We actually signed a conventional agreement contract with Lagos State government via LAMATA. What has been the economic impact of Primero to Lagos State? In terms of economic growth, BRT has been very impactful in Lagos State. Take Ikorodu for instance, a lot of people have been and are still moving into Ikorodu because of the availability of BRT buses for ease of transportation. Ikorodu’s economy in particular has and is still shooting up because land owners are now building, market people now smile to the banks and a whole lot of activities enhancing the economy are brewing in Ikorodu especially. Anywhere in the world where transportation is made easy, the economy will surely grow. Land will appreciate, virtually everything will appreciate. Transportation business is very important in any given society because it allows the economy to grow very fast. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Commuters believe you are not giving them the best services especially in terms of time wasted everyday waiting for your buses and why is it that the bus supervisors can’t control the ticket sellers? It is true that supervisors do not have any bossing right over the ticket sellers because of the way Primero is running its system. Look there are over one thousand five hundred people working on this scheme and there is no way you will put that amount of people together and not have some that will misbehave. People also complain about some bank branches in the same manner, it is human nature. We at Primero train them from time to time to improve as a person and also to provide a better service for our commuters but there is no way you do that kind of numbers that you will not encounter few that will be misbehaving till they lose their jobs. Majority of our staffs; overwhelming majority of our staffs do their jobs professionally without any issues but unfortunately people don’t talk about the majority but lay emphasis on the minority and that is unfortunate. People seldom pass compliments if the service is good but everybody starts complaining when the services go bad for a reason beyond operator’s control but nonetheless, we will continue to train them. With regards to the long waiting hours, if commuters want to be honest, they will tell you that it has reduced drastically though not perfect yet. We are now running more buses; we run about three hundred buses now and we intend to rollout more before the end of January to reduce more of the time commuters spend waiting but, there are a lot of other reasons for delay that is out of our control. Last week, I asked some of the staff to go count the buses that were stranded on the road due to traffic or an accident and they reported back that there were sixty- six (66) buses back to back from Owode Onirin to Mile 12 trying to get to their designated stations. Commuters with access to my contact started calling and abusing me, raining all sorts of insults but there was nothing I could do and I also understand that such negative reactions from clients is part of the job. The recent announcement of Primero’s plan to increase the transportation fare has generated a lot of uproar, can you tell us the reason for the proposed increment? What I said was that we (Primero) will approach our regulator to seek an increase in price. Let me put it this way: everybody is talking about service delivery, they want clean buses with air conditioners, availability of buses at the terminus 24/7 and all that makes transportation comfortable and easy which is fine but nobody is talking about our costs. It’s a two way thing; we need to curb our cost, nobody is talking about the alarming bank charges. What about the diesel price that has jumped up due to the crises in Iran? Nobody is talking about the exchange rate because most of these things are imported. Nobody is talking about the buses spare parts that have also skyrocketed. All everybody is talking about is services and my question to everybody is: who will pay for it because to have a world class service it has to be paid for. That is why I have been talking about having a round table discussion with the stakeholders. Let everybody have an honest discussion because you cannot just pass all the responsibility to Primero. It is a social issue to be deliberated upon bearing in mind that Primero is a private owned company. You cannot pass a governmental responsibility to a private owned company. If the company was government owned it can keep on piling up losses because at the end of the day, the tax payers will eventually writ it off but if a privately owned company tries such, it will not only fold up in no time, it will also go bankrupt. Do you know that in Lagos state in 15 years, prices of bus fare has only gone up once by 20% and that was two years ago? Are you telling me that every other thing that you have been paying in the last 15 years still goes for the same price or aren’t now higher than 20/30%? We really need to be honest with ourselves and have a serious stakeholders discussion on this issue. I am ready anytime any day, there is a need to for a discussion if we want the best of Primero services. Do you know that Lagos state rejects any of our buses that they term dirty, but who bears the cost? What can the government do to assist your company with the challenges you are facing? The only way the government can be of assistance is for it to organise a round table discussion with all BRT stakeholders. This issue of who is to bear the cost of good services has to be discussed by the government, commuters, Primero and all other stakeholders and it is only the government that can facilitate that being our regulator. It is a burden that all stakeholders should share not dump it on the door step of one company and that is what is happening right now to Primero. Some people compare BRT to Danfo and I ask them if the Danfos have all the facilities the BRT has and if the Danfo owners insure their vehicles not to mention their staffs and commuters and yet you expect Primero to charge less than Danfo while enjoying the best means of transportation, does that make sense? To be able to have the desired services, our politicians must initiate the stakeholders meeting because the issue on ground is political. It will be better if we face and tackle the situation now than run away from it because if we do, God forbid and Primero goes under, it will eventually come to hunt us all one way or the other. To sustain BRT, there must be an increment in the ticket fare. Do you know that in London, the prices of their bus fare increases between three and 5% every year? It is because they need to sustain and at the same time give commuters the best of services in terms of transportation. 