Victoria Ojugbana; Uche Nwosu Lagos / Umuahia – Mohammed Adamu, Inspector General of Police (IGP), on Thursday said that Amotekun will not be run as a regional security operation as initially suggested, noting that it will be driven by state-led effort. This is coming after the South West Regional Security Operation code-named Operation Amotekun has finally been adopted by governors of all states in the South West and the Inspector General of Police (IGP). The South West Governors’ Forum told the IGP, Mohammed Adamu, in Lagos on Thursday that the development would spring up fresh efforts to secure local communities. The Forum spoke through its chairman and governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, at the South West security meeting on community policing convened at the instance of the IGP. The meeting held at the Banquet Hall of the Lagos State government in Alausa. Also, the meeting ratified community policing model proposed by the IGP and the initiative would be complementing Operation Amotekun and conventional police operations in all local communities. The host and governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the security gathering was part of extensive meetings with the police leadership on adopting new strategies and initiatives towards securing lives and property of people in the South West. Lagos government, Sanwo-Olu said, will continue to champion initiatives and frameworks that continue to provide support and logistics required for effective policing in the region. Akeredolu said the meeting was of “great importance” to the people of South West, confirming that the Forum had a fruitful discussion with the IGP.  Speaking on the outcome, Akeredolu said: “The governors of South West and the IGP have held a very fruitful discussion and it is clear now to all of us that community policing, which the Nigeria police is anchoring is one that will benefit all of us. We have chosen that we will embrace community policing in its entirety. “In addition, we have spoken and we want everyone to know that Amotekun was not conceived as a regional police, but a state-based security outfit. We have come out of this meeting happy and we have agreed on the resolution. We have shed lights on dark areas and we are on the same page with the police with respect to these issues.” IGP Adamu substantiated Akeredolu’s claim, saying the participants at the meeting had fine-tuned Operation Amotekun and adopted it to be state-led initiative and not regional. He said: “This is the second meeting we have held with the governors of South West region concerning the creation of Operation Amotekun. The just concluded meeting was to discuss and fine-tune Amotekun. Our conclusion is what the chairman of South West Governors’ Forum has explained.  “Amotekun is not a regional security outfit. Every state has one form of security arrangement, whether it is vigilante or neighbourhood watch that are working with security agencies in the states to fight crime. Amotekun is not different from these initiatives. We have agreed that community policing strategy be infused into the Amotekun structure, so that policing will be initiative of the community members.” Adamu said the police would be part of the recruitment, training and deployment of personnel to be assigned for Amotekun operations, adding that the initiative would work in complementary with community policing model.  The IGP said policing must start with the public, urging members of the public to unite and form an alliance against criminals in their communities. He said the police would support the residents’ effort to keep their communities safe, but added any decision to be taken must come from the public. The IGP praised Lagos government for adopting a community-led policing arrangement, saying Lagos remained an example where “a good structure” of community policing had been effective. Anger Trails S/East Govs’ Decision To Drop Regional Security Outfit 
Angry reactions have greeted the decision of South East governors to drop the regional security outfit it earlier proposed in preference to community policing as suggested by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu.
Some people interviewed in Umuahia by Daily Independent said South East governors were on their own in accepting community policing in place of a regional security outfit already codenamed ‘Operation Ogbunigwe’, stressing that they should sought the views of their people before taking a decision on the matter.
An Umuahia based educationist, Umar Mbila, described the governors as cowards, pointing out that they were either intimidated by the Federal Government or were pursing personal agenda.
“Do they at all reflect the views of the people at the meeting with the IGP? Why should they be acting on their own selfish interests all the time?” Mbila asked.
He argued that the governors should have adopted the stance of the governors of the South West who, despite all threats, insisted on ‘Operation Amotekun’.
He advised them to revert to the regional security outfit that would protect all South Easterners against criminals.
In his comment, the President, Umuahia Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (UCCIMA), Chidi Nkem Aruoma, urged South East governors to come home and listen to their people, adding, “They should do what they want them to do”.
According to Aruoma, “They should go back to the drawing board. It’s not a concluded matter; it’s something that their subjects need to discuss.
“By the time we discuss, the governors would be able to see that this is actually what the people want and they can implement it. It’s not static, it’s elastic. I believe that the whole thing is not concluded yet.
“I believe that the choice of the people must prevail; after all, we’re running the government of the people by the people and for the people.
“Therefore, if you’re ruling the affairs of a particular set of people, you should as much as you can try to implement their decision.
“There should be town hall meetings where the governors would feel the pulse of the people and know exactly what they want and then they would try to implement it. It is then easy for you take your decision based on that.”