Uyo – Nigerian Thoracic Society has declared Nigeria a high-risk country for the Corona Virus epidemic currently ravaging some parts of China and blossoming into pandemic. The society made the declaration in a press statement jointly signed by Professor Prince Ele, National President and Dr. Victor Umoh, Secretary and made available to newsmen over the weekend. The society noted that Nigeria is host to thousands of Chinese and other businesses and hundreds of Nigerian businessmen travel to China regularly. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It however appreciated the role of NCDC information dissemination and mobilising the Nigerian response in this and similar epidemics. NTS charged the NCDC to rapidly create awareness of protective and precautionary measures among health workers and the general public. Appealing to the Nigerian public to observe basic universal safety measures and remain calm, the society recommended some general safety rules to reduce exposure and transmission of disease. The society recommended frequently cleaning of hands by using water and soap or alcohol-based hand sanitizer, cover mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing and wash hands later as well as avoid close contact with anyone who has fever and cough. Nigerians, NTS advised, should cook animal products thoroughly before consumption, anyone that is ill with fever, couch and difficulty breathing must seek medical attention on time and disclose previous travel history to your health care provider while those who visit livestock markets in areas currently experiencing cases of novel coronavirus should avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals and surfaces in contact with animals. The China epidemic is caused by a new virus, provisionally called 2019-nCov, a corona virus that started in Wuhan, a city in China. The disease has rapidly spread beyond the birders of China to several nations including the United States and there is a suspected case in Cote d’Ivoire, in West Africa; and all the victims had traveled to China. Typical symptoms of the disease are respiratory in nature, namely: shortness of breath, cough and in severe forms pneumonia. Fever is quite common and fatality may occur and the infection spreads from person and person by coughing and sneezing. The society disclosed that the exact primary source is currently speculative and there is no specific treatment or vaccine.