Juliet Oyoyo;Francis Onoiribholo Kaduna / Benin – Members of a family in Bakali village in Fatika District of Giwa Local Government Area of Kaduna State have been burnt to death. Daily Independent learnt that the family of 16 met their untimely death when bandits invaded their village, Bakali. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The bandits were said to have locked up the 16-member family in a room and set fire on the house. Local accounts claimed that the bandits invaded the community by 4.00p.m on Tuesday and set fire on bags of grains, vehicles, and motorcycles in the village. Sources disclosed that over 100 bandits invaded the village and carried out the horrendous operation. The Kaduna Police Command was yet to make any statement on the issue as at press time. Attempts to get more details from the police proved abortive as their telephone lines were busy. Gunmen Abduct Edo Monarch’s Wife, Daughter In Benin Meanwhile, Queen Florence Ikhumhen, wife of the Onojie of Ewatto kingdom in Esan South East Local Government Area of Edo State, His Royal Highness, Ikhumhen 11, has been kidnapped along with one of her daughters by gunmen. Queen Ikhumhen, who has just retired as the principal of Itohan Grammar School, Benin City, was kidnapped on Sunday night at her residence around Jemilla area of Benin City, the Edo State capital. Daily Independent gathered that the gunmen, who were armed with AK47 rifles, came on a speed boat through the Ikpoba River and after the abduction of the retired principal and her daughter also left through the same route. The incident was said to have been reported to the Ikpoba Hill Police Station immediately. Sources close to the Ewatto palace told Daily Independent that the incident had devastated the Onojie, His Royal Highness Ikhumhen 11, and the entire Ewatto kingdom. It was also learnt that the kidnappers had made contact with the palace and their close family members but that the amount they were demanding was yet unknown. When contacted, the Edo State Police Command spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, said he had been informed of the incident by the DPO, Ikpoba Hill Division, noting that investigation was ongoing.