LAGOS – The Federal Government has stated that the country’s gas reserves will continue to grow at a conservative rate of 1.0%,a streak it has maintained since 2013. A 2018 Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Annual Report by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), seen by DAILY INDEPENDENT yesterday, revealed that gas development picked up to six (6) non-associated gas development plans from two non-associated gas development plans in 2017. It attributed the gas reserves growth to growing commitments to gas projects, adding that domestic supply obligation (DSO) performance was about 48.0%, while the national gas capacity performance for 2018 was about 80.0% with an average of 1.3 BSCF/D gas delivery to the domestic market. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The agency said: “Overall, gas utilization in the country for 2018 shows the export market accounting for 41%, field/plant use accounts for 32%, the domestic market is about 13.6% and flare gas is 11%. “The zero routine gas flaring target in 2020 is vigorously being pursued by the Department. The impact of regulatory instruments such as Flare Gas (Prevention of Waste and Pollution) Regulations 2018 would undoubtedly facilitate the attainment of the zero flare elimination targets and improve gas utilization in the coming years. ‘’The Department continues to drive the on-going implementation of the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code (NGTNC). The review of the Network Code licensing framework and development of all its ancillary agreements have been firmed preparatory to a formal launch in 2019. Gas utilization is being deepened by increasing liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) penetration. LPG consumption increased by about 16.0% year on year. “A total of 364 LPG plants licenses and approvals were issued in 2018. This is expected to give about 15.0% rise in the nation’s LPG consumption-based on storage capacity. Safety and environmental compliance performance in the review year shows a declining path.” According to the gas, utilization is being deepened by increasing liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) penetration, adding that cooking gas consumption increased by about 16.0% year on year. “A total of 364 LPG plant licenses and approvals were issued in 2018. This is expected to give about 15.0% rise in the nation’s LPG consumption based on storage capacity. Safety and environmental compliance performance in the review year shows a declining path. Incidents and fatal accidents are mainly due to petroleum tanker truck accident and gas plants explosions,” it added.