The Minister for Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite has stated that the mining sector will contribute 3.0% of the nation’s GDP by 2025 as part of the set target efforts to contribute to the current administration’s diversification project. Adegbite, who made the disclosure at the Mining Indaba conference held in Cape Town, yesterday said the sector hasseen steadygrowthandisnowpoised to achieve exponential growth as investments in the sector begin to crystalise. He emphasised that Nigeria has huge deposits of mineral resources spread across the different states in the Federation with abundance of Iron Ore (Kogi, Enugu, Abuja), Bitumen (Ogun, Lagos, Ondo), Gypsum (Anambra, Adamawa, Borno), Gold (Oyo, Sokoto, Kebbi), Talc (Kogi, Osun, Niger etc.), Zinc & Lead (Akwa Ibom, Abuja, Benue). However, the sector remains significantly under-tapped. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Recalled that the Executive Secretary of Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), recently stated the sector’s contribution to GDP is only a paltry 0.5% from over 12.1% in the 70s. According to Adegbite, several issues continue to constrain growth in the sector, including poor infrastructure, weak regulatory framework & institutions, lack of oversight, lack of best practices and lack of data. Furthermore, concerns over illegal mining, lack of protection for legal miners as well as the dichotomy between federal and state governments have all contributed to constraining investments in the sector. He noted that illegal miners in Zamfara routinely smuggled gold to neighbouring countries like Niger and Togo. “This led to banditry in the state, forcing the federal government to impose a ban on any form of mining activities in the state. While mining as a business activity in Nigeria is carried out on an artisanal basis, a few foreign investors have weathered the storm despite challenging conditions to make significant investments in the Nigerian mining sector. Some of these investors include Australia’s Symbol Mining who develops lead & zinc projects in Benue, Thor Explorations, a Canadian company that owns the Segilola gold project.