LAGOS – Almost a week after disruption to flight services into Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos and other airports across the country, flight operations have resumed at affected airports. As at Saturday evening, no fewer than 26 flights had been operated between Friday and Saturday at Lagos Airport and Abuja. Airlines like British Airways, Arik, Dana, Air Peace and Azman had operated multiple times in and out of Lagos in the past 24 hours. A statement by Mr. James Odaudu, the Director, Public Affairs, Ministry of Aviation, regretted the inconvenience the flight disruptions has had on airlines and passengers. The statement hinted that both domestic and international flights had resumed at the airport. Some of the airlines that had landed at the airport included British Airways, Turkish Air, Royal Air Maroc, Arik Air, Virgin Atlantic, Air Peace, Asky Airlines, Dana Air, Allied Air, Arik Air, Kenya Airways, NAF, Air Peace, Nest-Oil, Azman, Ibom Air, Max Air and a few others. Odaudu emphasised that the diversions were due to the highly inclement weather conditions, not peculiar to Lagos or Nigeria alone, but a global phenomenon. He added that even the most developed nations of the world had been experiencing same, resulting from weather vagaries. He said: ”We also wish to re-establish the fact that the weather conditions in Lagos, and indeed every airport worldwide is not something that is noticed at the point of landing, as pilots are regularly updated during the course of the flights and therefore in a position to decide on the most appropriate airport to divert to. ”The Nnamdi Azikiwe International airport Abuja which has been in full operation, would have been the most appropriate for the affected airlines to divert to, if the overall interest of the Nigerian passengers was considered.” He reassured the public of the government’s commitment towards ensuring that full services that ensure the comfort, safety and security of air passengers are restored to normalcy, as all relevant authorities had been up and doing.