Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie If there is anything we need urgently in our country, Nigeria, it is a refinery. We need refineries not only in our oil sectors. We need refinery in our institutions, churches and even mosque. Unfortunately, each time people talk about refinery they often limit it to oil and petroleum sectors; but in actual sense, we all need refinery. We cannot do without refinery. A refinery brings out the best not only in the substance but also in the life of every human being and every organisation. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A refinery may be defined as an industrial installation where a substance is refined. It is also a facility where raw materials are converted into some valuable substance by having impurities removed. In a nutshell,  it the removal of impurities from products or substances. A refined product is a clean or pure product/substance.  Without refinery there will be no substance and human development. As a matter of urgency, we need the following refineries: We Need an Oil Refineries: An oil or petroleum refinery is an industrial process plant where crude oil is transformed. Nigeria is one of the major crude oil producers. Unfortunately, Nigeria has no refinery in place that can refine their crude oil. They have to export their crude oil outside and then import it back with huge sum of money. This is the most crazy and most irrational way of developing the oil sector. You can imagine how much Nigerians have to pay for this process. Whereas with a standard refinery in place, Nigeria will not only refine their crude oil and petroleum products it will also go a long way in creating job opportunity for numerous unemployed graduates in Nigeria. There is report that Aliko Dangote is building a refinery in Nigeria and that if one man could single-handedly attempt to build a refinery in Nigeria then what stops the Federal government or even the State government from embarking on this most needed project? The Federal government should not rely on foreign or one man’s refinery. A tree can never make a forest! In fact, we need more refineries. One refinery is not enough for a whole giant of Africa. This industry will not only solve the problem of our crude oil and petroleum it will go a long way in creating more job and development here in Nigeria. We Need Spiritual and Religious Refinery: Today’s first Reading from the book of Malachi 3:1-4 presents our Lord Jesus Christ as a Refiner’s fire: Behold, He is coming,” Says the LORD of hosts…   For He is like a refiner’s fire And like launderers’ soap. 3 He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver; He will purify the sons of Levi, And purge them as gold and silver, That they may offer to the LORD An offering in righteousness.” True Christians are the most refined people in the world. But do we really have true Christians in Nigeria? Or how can we get true Christians in Nigeria? It is only through this process of refinery that we can get the best Christians in Nigeria. In his Second Letter to the Corinthians 7:1 St. Paul declares, “… let us purify ourselves from everything that contaminates body and spirit, perfecting holiness out of reverence for God.” So many of us have contaminated themselves through immoral behaviour and other forms of sins. If we must be perfect as our Heavenly Father is perfect then we need total purification. And that is what spiritual refinery is all about! In his beatitude our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “Blessed are the pure in heart, For they shall see God” (Matthew 5:8). The only ones who are qualified to  see God are the refined ones or the pure in heart. You need to pass through spiritual refinery before you can see God. In his first letter St. John wrote, “Dear friends… we know that when Christ appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. All who have this hope in him purify themselves, just as he is pure.” (1 John 3:2-3). If you want to be as pure like Jesus Christ then you need to pass through spiritual refinery.  As you go through this spiritual refinery you will be refined and purified in soul, mind and body. We Need Prison Refinery: I celebrated the last Christmas at one of the Nigerian prison. I could not believe what I saw. I thought prison is meant to be a rehabilitation centre but to my greatest surprise the Nigerian prison has gradually become a dehumanisation centre. With the present condition of the Nigerian prison whoever passes through the prison will end up becoming less human. The prison cell are so congested that even animals cannot survive in such a terrible condition. Human beings are packed like sardine. We need Prison refinery or if you like prison reformation. Prison yard should be a place where people’s lives are refined and transformed for better and not for worse. The number of people on awaiting trials outnumbers the number of those who are convicted. Some of them have stayed years in the prison cell without trials. Justice delayed is justice denied! As a matter of urgency; if possible there should be a mobile court in all the Nigerian prisons to look into the case of those on awaiting trial. Through this process our prison yards will not just be de-congested but also refined. We Need Academic Refinery: Parents pay through their nose to send their children to schools. They expect academic reformation and transformation but unfortunately most of our children end up learning the worst form of behavior in school environment. A lot of children are initiated into cultism, while other end up joining dangerous gang in schools. Some children have lost the sense of discipline. They no longer respect their teachers and even parents. Something is terribly wrong with our academic system.  The only way out is to introduce academic refinery system in our schools. Schools should take moral instructions seriously. We Need Political Refinery: Our political institution is in a mess. People no longer vote according to their conscience they collect bribe and they often vote against their conscience. Even when they vote their vote no longer count. People move from one political party to another like butterfly moving from one flower tree to another.  Most people have completely lost hope with the present political system. The only way to regain people’s trust is to introduce a political refinery: machinery which will flush out all the political miscreants and then refine our political system and structures. We Need Security Refinery: Our security system has become so corrupt and so porous that people no longer trust the security agencies. The security agencies even constitute nuisance on the roads. They block highways and they collect bribes from motorist without any remorse. Almost every poles have a police, army or custom check-point. They end up frustrating free movement of motorist. A journey that supposed to take an hour will end up taking three to four hours due to illegal check-points. A Security refinery will help to flush out all the corrupt security officers and agencies. We Need Court Refinery:  The court is meant to be the last hope of the common masses but unfortunately it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that our court is becoming more corrupt that all the institutions in the country. There is an adage that says, when things are dirty people use water to wash them but when water is dirty what can be used to clean a dirty water? People are supposed to seek for justice through the court but what happens when the court itself is corrupt? All the courts in Nigeria need refinery from injustice and corruption. With these various refineries in place we are sure of a perfect society!