Dr Abdulazeez Yinka Oniyangi is the gubernatorial candidate of the New Progressives Movement (NPM) in Kwara State in the last general elections. Oniyangi, an industrialist and aviation expert, in this interview with YAQOUB POPOOLA, admonished Nigerians not to be deterred by the deceit and acts of betrayal in politics. Excerpts: Looking at you, you appear to be a quiet and easy going personality. What triggered your interest in politics? Honestly, looking back, I found it difficult to attribute my entry into politics to a particular reason, or explain my journey into politics. I have never been advised by anyone to do so. I think, for me, it is a divine call. As much we tried to avoid politics, we discovered that we have a lot of things to offer from my career. I am eminently qualified to aspire to that coveted seat and age is also on my side. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network How would you describe your experience in politics? I will be honest with you. It was a wonderful experience and I keep telling people that there is a whole lot of difference between being part of the game and be an onlooker. If you are not part of the game you will not really understand the process. If you are actively involved then you will know the nitty-gritty of the game, rather than doing permutations. Do you have any regrets whatsoever in your brief sojourn in politics? No, although my involvement in politics come with a lot of sacrifices and intrigues. But, one thing we can never sacrifice is our integrity. Even when we were faced with pressure to step down for certain candidate or forming an alliance with a certain political force, we stood firm and maintained our focus. We are loyal to our party and supporters. Loyalty is a two-way thing. When your supporters are loyal to you, you must reciprocate that good gesture by not letting them down. We put our hat in the ring. Though we lost, we maintained our integrity. This does not mean that we are hanging the boots. We shall continue to watch the game and if God spares our lives till the next election, we are going to take it off from where we stopped. The big challenge of Nigerian democracy today is lack of space for honest people, especially in the major political parties. How do you think Nigerians can get out this? Well, Nigeria is not ripe for that. But, one needs to experiment. If you don’t plant a seed, it cannot grow. For me, it is a matter of tenacity, perseverance, hard work and continuous enlightenment of the people. I know someday we will get there. Like I said, the experience was awesome. Many people did not believe we could go as far as we did. Without getting anything from anybody, we did as much as we did. What I would say is that the good people should not quit the stage because of deceit and actions of betrayers and acts of betrayals. They should continue to try their luck. What the situation was five years ago is not what it is now. There are a lot of opportunities. Deceit is one of the challenges of our political system in Nigeria. I think we got a fair share of that during our political journey. But, for me, I think those are part of the things we experience in life. And that doesn’t change who you are anyway. You must continue to be who you are, being patient forthright and upright. Because the ability to serve is part of religion for me, that experience was exciting, but not all moments. I shall continue to learn more about human beings. As an industrialist, how would describe the business environments in Nigeria? I think one of the challenges arose from the multiple taxation problem. Even foreign investors don’t like to come here. Government needs to centralise the tax structure so that it becomes friendly to investors. This is because if you continue to pay all manners of taxes to the various government agencies, you will be left with nothing at the end of the day. Yes, I understand the quest for revenue drive by the government. But, we can synchronise all these into limited numbers. Everybody just wants to have a fair share of the money. They don’t care whether the business is flourishing or having teething problem. All these affect the economic development of any country. Another question we should ask is whether we are getting the rewards for all these taxes. I mean the basic amenities that make business work like electricity, water, good roads and secured environment. But, you pay taxes and you don’t even know where the money is going into. Again, the control is not there. The one that worries me most is the attitude of the Nigeria Customs. If you travel from Abuja to Lagos, you imagine the number of customs check points you will see on the road. This worries me a lot. The question I keep asking is that these men were looking for the cars smuggled into the country through the borders the customs claimed to man. So, if you allowed the cars in as result of the irresponsibility of some officers, why harassing people on the highway. It is bizarre and I think they are over staffed. That is the way I always describe it. Because somebody is not doing something right at the point of entry, you now see customs everywhere. I think they are not supposed to be seen in the hinterlands.