SAMSON NWAFOR ABAKALIKI – The Managing Director of Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Mr. Uche Orji, has stated that the Federal Government under the Presidential fertilizer initiative programme has revived over 26 fertilizer blending plants since 2017. Orji who was in a one day working visit to Ebonyi State, told Journalists yesterday that before the launch of the Presidential fertilizer initiative, only four fertilizer blending plants were operational across the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the feat so far made in fertilizer production under the presidential initiative in the last three years, had ended importation of fertilizer into the country, as all the ones currently being used were all produced locally. “The idea this year is to expand substantially the presidential fertilizer initiative. So, every blending plant is part of it. This programme has been a very incredible programme of Mr. President. “When the programme started in 2017, there were only four blending plants working in the whole country, but today, 26 blending plants are operational across the country, which is remarkable. “Most of the fertilizers we use in the country today are produced locally. So, this is part of preparatory visit to be sure we are starting the programme this year aggressively. From next week, Ebonyi blending plant will start blending for the season. “The same thing will happen in Benue, Zamfara, Kaduna, Plateau, Akwai Ibom and Lagos states; because, these are all states with blending plants and we shall be working hard to ensure the work this season,” he said. NSIA boss expressed happiness over the progress and expansion so far made by Ebonyi fertilizer blending plant, and assured of the federal government readiness to encourage the industry, being the only one serving the entire South-East zone. “It was nice to see the expansion in Ebonyi fertilizer blending plant. It is a critical blending plants, being the only one in the South-East zone. If you look at the Northwest and North Central we have several blending plants. So, we need to encourage the only blending plants that exist in the area.” Orji further disclosed that there were lots of investable opportunities that were of interest to NSIA in the State, adding, “I’m very impressed with what I have seen in Ebonyi State.” According to him, once in a while, they visit States to see investment opportunities and decide the ones that are investable and invest on them. He explained that part of the reasons for the visit, was to ascertain the readiness of Ebony State blending plant to blend for the season, as the Federal Government was planning big under its Presidential fertilizer initiative this year, 2020; just as he disclosed that Ebonyi fertilizer blending plant would commence production for 2020 planting season. Earlier, the Ebonyi State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation and acting Commissioner for Human Capital Development and Monitoring, Barr. Uchenna Orji, explained that the visit by NSIA was going to bring about some interventions in the state. “We do hope that he (referring to NSIA) will at the end of the visit make some interventions. It is going to have tremendous impacts on the State in the areas of investment that will create jobs and development of commerce and industries”, Orji concluded.