Over the last few years, the Federal Government has been exploring ways to revamp the Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) Sector, but with little or no success. Several measures and initiatives were initiated in the past through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and other agencies to deepen investments. In this report, MOHAMMED SOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and  ISAAC ASABOR beam a searchlight on a range of issues surrounding the sector and the way forward. Excerpts: In consideration of the fact that the Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) Sector of the economy is being impacted on by multifarious factors and driven by a set of strategies, policies and programmes ,it would be unmistaken for the government to adopt a holistic approach towards bringing it back to the days when it was the envy of every nation. For the umpteenth time, the Federal Government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), being its representative, have consistently demonstrated convincing moves that show its willingness to revive the country’s distressed textile industry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network One of such moves is the proposed injection of N100 billion aimed at putting the industry on a sound footing as the sector is believed to have the capacity to contribute to the growth of the economy, and expected to create two million jobs. Hope for the sector was raised by President Muhammadu Buhari, who in the month of November, 2019 directed the CBN to come to the aid of the textile industry as part of his administration’s economy diversification agenda aimed at growing the economy and in the same vein achieve inclusive growth through job creation. In the bid to bring the determination to reality, the Textile Revival Implementation Committee (TRIC) whose members include the officials of CBN, Federal Ministries of Agriculture and Rural Development; Water Resources; Industry, Trade and Investment and the Governments of Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Gombe and Zamfara States by the CBN was established. According to Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of CBN in one of the meetings that was aimed at addressing the issues which the sector is faced with, “This committee is driving the initiative to achieve self-sufficiency in cotton production and textile materials within a span of three years”, and added that “The Federal Government is also going beyond throwing money at the sector to creating domestic demand for the textile products through the implementation of the Executive Order 003, which mandated “procuring authorities to give preference to Nigerian companies and firms in the award of contracts, in line with the Public Procurement Act 2007.” DAILY INDEPENDENT can recall in this context that CBN, Unity Bank and the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) entered into Partnership in May 2019 to help Nigeria’s Cotton Farmers. The CBN at the time announced that the partnership was to commence the distribution of seeds and inputs supplies to cotton farmers for the 2019 planting season. The development, no doubt, according to stakeholders and observers in the sector, is in line with the country’s commitment to grow the economy through the revival of Agriculture as the major economic catalyst, and which is part of the Anchor Borrowers’ Program (ABP). The partnership which was designed to support wet season farming is in recognition of the Bank’s established pivotal footprints in Agriculture. Usman Abdulqadir, who is the Executive Director, Corporate Planning & Compliance, Unity Bank, at the time being referred to said CBN is partnering with Unity Bank on account of the lender’s strong participation in the ABP. According to Abdulqadir, “Unity Bank’s strategy is to bank the agricultural value chain. Therefore, we finance primary production, agricultural processing as well as commodity trading. We also support agricultural mechanisation, agricultural services and the procurement of inputs and implements”. He said:  “What is most noteworthy is that while other banks basically concentrate on lending to big value end of the agriculture value chain such as the flour and rice millers, Unity Bank does not leave out the small holders farmers who are in primary production”. As gathered, back in the 1980s, Nigeria’s textile industry was head and shoulders above all others in Africa with over 180 textile mills in operation, employing nearly 500,000 people and contributing more than 25 percent of the workforce of the manufacturing sector. But the foregoing glory as captured in this context has left the Nigeria’s textile sector of the economy to the consternation of many stakeholders and industry watchers. It is ostensibly against the retrogressive development that the sector has been witnessing that Emefiele, at a particular forum convened to see how the sector can be revived, said: “Nigeria’s textile industry is now entirely different from what it used to be. And most of the factories have halted operations with only 25 textile factories still operational currently. Against the foregoing background, it is not farfetched to say that CBN’s move towards the resuscitation of the Nigerian textile industry is unarguably aimed at bringing back the glory days that in the past characterised the sector. To this end, CBN has last year approved a loan of NGN 19.18 bn to 9 cotton-producing firms. The CBN governor made this known while signing two memoranda of understanding in Abuja on October 29, 2019. The first agreement was between the National Cotton Association of Nigeria and Ginning Companies to guarantee steady off-take and processing of cotton lint and cotton seeds. The other MoU was between the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association (NTM) and the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Nigeria Police, paramilitary institutions and the National Youth Service Corps. Emefiele said, through the loan, the CBN aims to enable the firms to retool their processing plants. He stated that the loan, which would be disbursed at a single-digit interest rate, would assist in sustaining their operations and improving their production capacity. He added that the same support would be extended to the textile and garment firms. “We are improving the linkage between cotton farmers and ginneries, by ensuring that ginneries are able to off-take the high-quality cotton produced by these farmers. “In this regard, approval to a tune of N19.18bn has been granted to finance nine ginneries with a view to retooling their processing plants, while providing them with improved access to finance at single digit interest rate,” he said. It was Emefiele’s submission that the MoU was a step in the right direction towards the implementation of Executive Order 003, in which President Muhammadu Buhari directed all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to give preference to local content in their procurement of goods and services. The intervention in the cotton industry had previously taken about N50 billion and to CBN’s estimation, that sum would run into N100 billion eventually if the sector is to be restored to the days of its glory. With that in mind, Emefiele revealed putting together a committee of the CBN, Federal Ministries of Agriculture and Rural Development; Water Resources; Industry, Trade and Investment, and the governments of Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Gombe and Zamfara States, called the Textile Revival Implementation Committee, to give the sector a new lease of life. The need and expediency to revive the sector cannot be farfetched as the opening remarks of Emefiele in his opening remarks at a meeting with service chiefs and chief executive of uniformed services in Nigeria towards reviving the textile industry through enforcement of Executive Order 003 in support of local content in procurement by MDAs on July 11, 2019 is self-explanatory. He said, “Distinguished Service Chiefs, Chief Executives of Uniformed Services, in pursuance of the current administration’s drive towards economic diversification and creating jobs for our teeming population with emphasis on agricultural revolution, the Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) sector has been identified as critical. “This is because the Nigerian CTG sector holds huge potentials. Specifically, the sector has the capacity to transform Nigeria’s rural economy and revive the textile and garment industries by creating over 2 million jobs, improve internal revenue across three tiers of government, reduce $4.0billion import bill incurred annually on textile and apparel, safeguard and earn foreign exchange and ultimately accelerate industrial development by making Nigeria a global player in the textile and apparel sectors. While shedding light on why the textile industry need to be revived, the governor explained that it was because the Nigerian CTG sector holds huge potentials, particularly as the sector has the capacity to transform Nigeria’s rural economy and revive the textile and garment industries by creating over two million jobs, improve internal revenue across three tiers of government, reduce $4.0billion import bill incurred annually on textile and apparel, safeguard and earn foreign exchange and ultimately accelerate industrial development by making Nigeria a global player in the textile and apparel sectors. Despite the fact that the CBN and the Federal Government have made efforts to revive the textile industry beyond revamping the cotton sector, stakeholders and industry observers want efforts to revive the textile sector to be holistic. Tee Thompson (Managing Partner, African Trade Business Centre) in one of his publications in the media said: “The Federal Government has made some investments towards reviving the textile industry but a lot still needs to be done. “The textile industry is a viable sector that can provide millions of jobs for Nigerians. It also has the capacity to create thousands of jobs for individuals involved in direct and indirect businesses along the value chain. It is a sector that can boost the nation’s quest for industrialisation. There is the need for both the federal and state governments to invest more in the textile industry and ensure that such investments are well managed. There should also be adequate training for those involved in the production process on modern practices and the use of cutting edge technologies. “While it is necessary to make more money available in the sector, efforts must be made to ensure prudence and accountability in the management of such funds. “It is also important to ensure the adoption of modern technologies in order to revamp Nigeria’s ailing textile industry. The Federal Government should collaborate with state governments to secure the investments already made towards reviving this sector. Nigeria will truly play its leadership role in Africa with the revival of the textile industry. When the textile industry is revived; it will feed other industries by providing raw materials for them. It will also create wealth for artistically minded Nigerians as well as improve the lot of farmers who will be engaged in the production of cotton. With that, the living standard of the people will increase and they can diversify into other productive areas. The textile industry must not only be revived for primary production but for secondary and even tertiary levels. The value chain addition will be so great that Nigerian can earn a lot of foreign exchange and compete favourably with other global players. The task of reviving the textile industry should not be left for the government alone. All other stakeholders such as farmers, labour organisations, artisans, tailors and others involved in the value chain must be truly committed to the good cause of reviving the textile industry. As gathered by DAILY INDEPENDENT, in as much as efforts, apart from boosting cotton production, are being made to resuscitate the sector, such as textile products being included on the forex restriction list, boosting the sector with: Announcing its inclusion last year, Emefiele said, “Today, Nigeria currently spends above $4 billion annually on imported textiles and ready-made clothing”. One of the directions to point to, apart from reviving the cotton sector, in the journey of reviving the textile sector is to place a ban on the importation of textiles in to the country. This direction was looked into by Senator Kabir Barkiya, representing Katsina Central Senatorial District, during a plenary when he pushed for the legislation of ban of textile product for a period of five years to allow for the production of local textiles. Senator Kabir Barkiya, who raised the issue during the plenary on Tuesday, explained that the textile industry played a significant role in the manufacturing sector of the Nigerian economy with a record of over 140 companies in the 1960s and 1970s. While stakeholders in the private sector insist on sustainable policies are the necessary solutions to the reveila of the sector, another area towards the revamping of the textile industry being brought for consideration at the senate by the senator was the encouragement of local textile manufacturing companies through the provisions of soft loans, tax holidays and easy access to credit facilities to them. He also argued for the need to approach foreign textile companies for investments in the country as that has more advantage to offer the economy than when they only export to Nigeria. In the same vein, stakeholders have for the umpteenth time linked the distressed state of the once vibrant Nigerian textile industry to epileptic power supply among other factors other than the inadequacies that characterise the cotton sector.  , leaving Africa’s biggest economy at the mercy of inferior foreign and smuggled fabrics with grave consequences on job creation. Speaking on the troubled sector last year at a forum, Muda Yusuf, Director-General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) said, “Some of the mills have even gone into receivership as they could not repay their loans.  The lesson is that we should deal with the fundamental issues of production competitiveness in our economy.  The textile industry needs to be saved from the excruciating burden of high operating and production cost.” Mr. Hamma Kwajaffa, Director-General of Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association (NTMA), while proffering solution at a media parley on how to rejuvenate the textile and garment sector said, “the enablers required infrastructure support, fiscal incentives, financing, anti-smuggling and regulatory, and added that “VAT exemption on locally produced textiles for five years to improve competitiveness, and existing Common External Tariff (CET) policy should be sustained without individual based waivers. He also advocated that gas pipelines be extended to the region where textile mills are located. In a similar vein, he urged government to demonstrate its political will by harmonising power tariff for textile mills from Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOs) across the country and consider supply of power to textile manufacturers at globally competitive tariff of eight US cents per kilowatt. He called for market assistance for garment producers to gain access and leverage the United States market under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) and capacity building for textile industry operators. Mr. Matthew Elueme, an economist and an observer of the textile sector said, “The Federal Government in its effort to revive the sector should be holistic as it is being bedeviled by multifarious factor.” He, however,  explained equal focus should be given to all factors that are negatively impacting on the textile sector, saying that none has more devastating effect than the other.