Dr. Felix Nwosu, is an Imo State-born policy analyst and public affairs commentator. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the continued controversies over the Supreme Court judgment on the Imo State governorship election. He also touched the ‘Operation Amotekun’ security outfit set up by the South West governors and other crucial issues. Excerpts: The Supreme Court judgment which sacked Emeka Ihedioha and enthroned Hope Uzodimma as governor is still causing ripples in Imo State with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) visiting foreign embassies, United Nations (UN) and European Union (EU). What is your take on the judgment? To some of us who understand Imo politics so well, it was a surprise that PDP was said to have won the governorship election in Imo State based on the rancor between wRochas Okorocha, Uche Nwosu and the Imolites. Imolites rejected familitocracy, but they did not reject APC. When APC gave the ticket to Uzodimma, people believed he would have won. APC would have won Imo because apart from the late Chief Sam Mbakwe, Okorocha performed very well, especially in his first term. Their love for APC was still there, but for Okorocha’s masquerade dance near the end of his tenure. The people of Imo still preferred APC to Action Alliance (AA), which presented Uche Nwosu. The result of the election as released by INEC, was surprising, especially to those who know how strong Uzodimma is. As a dogged fighter, Uzodimma fought on when Emeka Ihedioha was declared winner of that election, till he got victory at the Supreme Court. The people love Uzodimma. I think the Supreme Court corrected an obvious error and whatever the PDP might have done during and immediately after the election backfired. Remember that the man who announced the senatorial election said he did so under duress. The same thing could have happened in the governorship election. Okorocha was the Chief Security Officer at that time. He knew what could have happened. The reconciliation within the APC chapter in Imo brought out the truth as they must have set the records straight. Is it a surprise that Okorocha, who was suspended by the APC, has been forgiven and recalled? It was wrong for Ihedioha to have concentrated on fighting Okorocha throughout the six months he was in power. It was bad politics on his part. He should have left Okorocha alone and concentrated on governance. Imo kingmakers gave the victory to Ihedioha to reduce the tension in Imo at that time. The announcement of Ihedioha as the winner of that election at that time calmed the nerves. But, that did not hide the truth. As an experienced politician, Ihedioha should not have been vindictive towards Okorocha. May be, he could have remained the governor. However, I believe that Ihedioha recorded some achievements for Imo people during his short stay as governor. It would have been a disaster if either Action Alliance (AA) or All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) had won in Imo. Also, PDP under Achike Udenwa did not perform or achieve much for Imo people. I don’t think Imo people really wanted PDP. I see Ihedioha’s emergence as an arrangement which was short-lived. Hope Uzodinma has said that he planned to probe the administrations of Ikedi Ohakim, Rochas Okorocha and that of Emeka Ihedioha. How do you see his decision? That is not what Imolites need now. They do not need probes, but progress. We do not want vindictiveness. He should set a target for himself and perform like Mbakwe. Let him write his name in gold like Mbakwe did. If he begins to look at errors, he will make great mistakes, which he will live to regret. But, if there are obvious lapses or fraud, he should hand over the matter to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and move on. If he begins to probe, they will fight him back and this will affect progress and development in Imo State. The probes instituted by Ihedioha did not achieve anything. If Uzodinma really wants to probe, he should start from Achike Udenwa’s era. Because Ohakim and Okorocha did not probe anybody, there was peace in the state. Uzodimma needs peace if he wants to perform. People will judge him by his performance and not by probes. Since he is a ‘change’ bearer, he should bring the type of change that will take Imo to the ‘next level’. What agenda would you proffer for the incumbent Imo State governor? We need continuity. On-going projects by the former administrators, especially those started by Ihedioha should be continued and completed. Let him move round and know what Imolites need. He should work with the local governments. With the full autonomy he granted to local governments, let him ensure that they perform so that development will get to the grassroots. There should be financial surveillance. He should watch and monitor the local governments carefully to ensure that they use their funds wisely. Let him ensure proper supervision of the councils and demand regular reports from them. We are called Imolites. Imolites are supposed to be the light. Let there be light everywhere. He should ensure that there is rural electrification programme that will reach all communities. Okorocha said that Imo will set the standard for South East. But, that did not come to pass during his time. So, what Okorocha and the others could not do, Uzodinma should do them. He should work in synergy with the Imo federal lawmakers and ministers so that they will support him for greater Imo. He should also work closely with the APC Governors Forum and the President. Let him be friend to all. All the projects going on in the Owerri Central and Mbaise should be completed. He should do something to endear himself to Mbaise people who have been looking for the position of governorship for a long time. Mbaise people are still nursing the pain of Ihedioha’s loss. So, let him find a way to settle them. Let him forget about probing Ihedioha, who only ruled for less than six months. What is your advice for the Mbaise people who had been agitating for the governorship and now feel cheated out with the Supreme Court decision? Just like Ihedioha called for calm and peace after the Supreme Court judgment, Mbaise people should take the loss with equanimity. They should see it as their fate. This should not discourage them. They should continue to fight for the governorship position through the ballot. They should align themselves with the other zones and build bridges within Imo State and be in the right party. Mbaise cannot get the governorship position without the support of the other senatorial districts. May be, it could be their turn next time. That time, there will be no rancor, but free and fair election. What is your view on the formation of the Amotekun security outfit by the South West governors? It is only one who is not a right thinking Nigerian that will not support what will enhance security, not only in South West. The South West governors are trying to help the Federal Government to achieve what it could not achieve in eight years. If the Federal Government has been battling Boko Haram from 2009 till date, it means the Federal Government does not have what it takes to ensure adequate security and protection of lives and properties of citizens. Boko Haram took over the North East and even attempted to run over Abuja. Government is about securing lives and properties. Anyone against the action of the South West Security Network is against the lives and properties of the people. Lagos and South West is the industrial hub of the federation. Let the Federal Government not see the Amotekun as trying to divide Nigeria. It is indeed a better arrangement to secure Nigeria. Other regions like South East, South South and the Middle Belt (North Central) should emulate the South West to ensure that the nation is properly secure. The setting up of Amotekun by the South West region is in line with the community policing policy which the Federal Government is now encouraging. They are like vigilantes helping to ensure security. The Federal Government will not finance it. The South West governments will do so. The Amotekun should work with the police, just like the Civil Defence. In USA, there is the FBI. There are also state police. Even local governments in Nigeria should have their police. But, the legal framework should be done properly to ensure standard. The Boko Haram recently killed the CAN Chairman in Adamawa State, while other clerics and Christians are also being killed. Would you say with these killings that a religious war is imminent in the country? Definitely. But, it seems the people in authority are playing politics with Boko Haram and it is affecting the nation. It is now creating religious bias among Nigerians. People are now wondering if they are using Boko Haram to Islamise Nigeria. They are trying to silence the vocal Christian leaders. Religion and politics build the nation. If the killing of Christians continues, Boko Haram may drag the nation into religious war. The Federal Government should not allow this to happen. The Federal Government has continued to say that Boko Haram is faceless. It started in 2009 after the 2007 election and has continued since then. People see the Boko Haram insurgency not only as political, but also religious. With the body language of President Muhammadu Buhari, people may continue to see it as a plot to silence Christians and Islamise Nigeria. If these killings of Christians continue, people may naturally react. They are not the only ones who know how to carry guns. They are using the name of God to cause mayhem. Others may also begin to retaliate, using the same name of God. Unfortunately, several Islamic leaders are humble, peaceful and kindhearted. A lot of money has been wasted in the fight. Why can’t our military crush them as they crushed Biafra within three and half years? This is getting over 10 years. They called the Civilian JTF, OPC and other groups to order. Why is Boko Haram so tough to crush? Has it become a business venture for some people? People should not be equating Boko Haram to international terrorists because none of the known global terrorist organisations has officially adopted them.  Boko Haram’s operations have continued to centre in Nigeria, North East in particular. So, the Federal Government should find a solution to Boko Haram insurgency. Some questions the Federal Government needs to answer include: Are the herdsmen Boko Haram? Are the kidnappers parts of Boko Haram? Why has it been difficult for the military to crush them? It is baffling since the military has been crushing all other uprisings, but not Boko Haram. It is surprising that the nation’s land borders have not been shut against the Boko Haram, but the borders are closed against economic goods. Why should the Federal Government compromise security and allow Boko Haram to fester for over nine years? It is baffling. What reforms would you advocate for INEC before the 2023 general elections? Let the political gladiators change their mindset that they must rig elections. We must end godfatherism. People should stop seeing politics as business. If all these continue, no reform will be successful. We want only free and fair elections that can lead to the defeat of an incumbent, as happened in 2015. Until politicians are ready to serve Nigerians, no reform will succeed. We need reforms that will change the mindset of people to want free and fair elections, from the local council elections to the Presidential election. Elections should start from the local government councillors and their chairmen, to the state legislature and the governorship, and then the federal legislature and the presidency. No electoral reform can succeed until Nigerians do away with godfatherism and government by appointment. People should determine their leaders. Governors and godfathers should not be the ones to appoint leaders for the people. They should stop money politics or vote buying. They are turning politics and governance to business. The electoral law should specifically provide for electronics voting. We started talking about electronics voting in 2015. It was partially used then and we succeeded. Why should it fail in 2019? INEC should take a look at party registration and reduce the number of political parties. There should be independent candidates. INEC should perfect the voter register. INEC should be fully independent. With the type of election results that are being reviewed in tribunals and the courts, INEC has failed Nigerians. In fact, INEC needs to be probed because it is haunting and hurting Nigerians. It is only Attahiru Jega that was firm. All other INEC chairmen, past and present, should be probed. INEC waste a lot of funds and always come out with results that cannot stand the test of time. Look at the problems in Imo State and all the re-runs going on across the country. INEC needs to be probed and sanitised. The reform should start by probing INEC. INEC officials commit a lot of fraud, live large and they throw the nation into confusion every election year. Nigerians are not happy with INEC. They should speak up. INEC is a major problem of Nigerian democracy. It is retarding our democratic progress. It should be made to become a strong institution to be handled by men of integrity, sincerity and not ‘O Yes’ people who will do the biddings of godfathers. Lastly, Nigerian leaders should take restructuring seriously. Nigeria should be properly restructured before the next election.