Temidayo Akinsuyi; Igoniko Oduma; Tony Ezimakor; Paschal Njoku;Samuel Ogidan  Lagos / Yenagoa /Abuja  – There was jubilation in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, on Thursday by supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the Supreme Court invalidated the election of governor-elect, David Lyon, and his running mate, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. However, there was disquiet in the camp of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the judgment disrupted preparations by the party for the inauguration of Lyon and his deputy, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, today in Yenagoa. The verdict came before the commencement of a valedictory session by the outgoing administration of Governor Seriake Dickson at the Executive Chambers in the Government House. Timipre Sylva, the leader of the APC in the state and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, had led other chieftains of the party to book accommodation in major hotels for visiting guests ahead of the ceremony. It was gathered that some guests were said to have started arriving in the state capital before the nullification of the governor-elect’s election. No official of the APC, especially the state chairman, Jothan Amos; the secretary, Alabo Martins, and the publicity secretary, Doifie Buokoribo, could be reached for comments on the judgment as they did not answer calls to their mobile phones. Governor Dickson called for calm and urged PDP leaders and supporters not to foment trouble on account of the legal victory, stressing that “there is no victor, no vanquished.” He spoke during a live media chat while reacting to the judgment at the Government House, Yenagoa on Thursday. Dickson said, “For me, all of us have won. We are all one, no one should spite anybody. We have a governor-elect (Diri) who will be sworn in tomorrow (Friday) and I will leave the stage.” He also commended the judiciary “for standing by the truth and being the instrument through which justice has been served.” Supreme Court’s Verdict
The Supreme Court decision invalidating the election of Lyon and his running mate, Degi-Eremienyo, came barely 72 hours after it had dismissed an appeal filed by the former Minister of State for Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, against Lyon Pereworinimi and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), challenging the gubernatorial primary election of Bayelsa State held on September 4, 2019.
The apex court held that the appellant (Lokpobiri) filed the case at the trial court outside the 14 days provided by the constitution.
Following the judgment, Lyon and his camp were already preparing for swearing-in today before the latest pronouncement.
In a unanimous decision, a five-man panel headed by Justice Mary Peter-Odili ordered INEC to withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to Lyon and his running mate as winners of the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state.
In a lead judgement, Justice Ejembi Ekwo invalidated the candidacy of Degi-Eremienyo as APC’s deputy governorship candidate in the poll.
The panel held that Degi-Eremienyo’s disqualification had infected the joint ticket with which he and the governorship candidate, Lyon, ran for and won the November 16, 2019 governorship election.
Consequently, the panel ordered INEC to issue fresh certificates to the candidates of the party with the next highest votes and with the required constitutional spread of votes in the results of the election.
By the pronouncement, the court affirmed the November 12, 2019 judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja which had disqualified Degi-Eremienyo in the election for lying on oath and submitting forged certificates to INEC.
Recall that Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, had on November 12, 2019 disqualified the APC deputy governorship candidate, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, from participating in the November 16, 2019 gubernatorial election.
Justice Ekwo gave the order in a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1101/2019, filed on September 18, 2019 by the PDP and its governorship candidates in the state, Douye Diri, and Lawrence Ewhruojakpo.
Justice Ekwo had ordered Degi-Eremienyo’s disqualification on the grounds that he presented false information about his educational qualifications in his Form CF001 submitted to INEC as a candidate for the 2019 poll.
The court held that the act amounted to giving false information in violation of section 31(5) and (6) of the 2010 Electoral Act.
The court was of the view that the Form CF001 was a document validated by oath, adding that “the consequence of lying on oath is grave”.
He noted that it had been held in Action Congress V. INEC (2007) “that where a candidate is found to have lied on oath, a court must issue an order disqualifying such a candidate from contesting the election”.
Justice Ekwo opined that Degi-Eremienyo presented documents of academic qualifications with various variations of names different from the name that appeared on his Form CF001.
Justice Ekwo held that there was no evidence to prove that the documents with different name variations were his.
“I further hold that the information given by the 3rd defendant on Form CF001 that the documents thereto attached as his have, not by any iota of credible evidence, been so established.
“The information is false in all material particular as none of the said documents have any nexus with the name of the 3rd defendant (Degi-Eremienyo) on the said Form CF001.”
The judge went on to make a declaration “that the information which the 3rd defendant submitted to the 2nd defendant in his INEC Form CF001, that affidavit in support of personal particulars of person seeking election to the Office of the Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State is false contrary to section 31(5) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended)”.
In addition, the court said: “A declaration is hereby made that by virtue of the mandatory constitutional and statutory provisions of sections 6(6), 186 and 187(1) and (2) of the 1999 constitution (as amended), the 3rd defendant stands disqualified from contesting the forthcoming Bayelsa State governorship election as deputy governor, slated for November 16, 2019 or any other state thereabout on the platform of the 1st defendant (APC) or any other political party by reason of the fact that the 3rd defendant has presented false information as to his educational qualifications or name in INEC Form CF001 in support of his nomination contrary to section 31(5) and (6) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended).
“An order is hereby made disqualifying the 3rd defendant as the deputy governorship candidate at the 1st defendant (APC) in the November 16, 2019 Bayelsa State governorship election by reason of the 3rd defendant presenting false information to the 2nd defendant (INEC) in support of his nomination contrary to section 31(5) and (6) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended).”
It was learnt from court processes that the names on the different documents attached to his Form CF001 were said to be Biobarakum Degi-Eremienyo, Degi Biobaragha, Degi Biobarakuma, Adegi Biobakunmo, Degi-Eremienyo Wangagha, etc.
The APC’s deputy governorship candidate was said to have claimed to have obtained “his First School Leaving Certificate in 1976” and presented to INEC “a First Leaving School Certificate of one Degi Biobaragha other than the one bearing his name Biobaragha Degi-Eremieoyo as shown in his INEC Form CF001”.
He was also said to have claimed to have “obtained his West African Examinations Council General Certificate of Education in 1984” and presented to INEC “a GCE certificate of one Adegi Bibakuo other than the one bearing his name Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo as shown in his INEC Form CF001.”
Miffed by the judgment of the Federal High Court, Degi-Eremieoyo headed to the Court of Appeal to seek redress.
In a judgment on December 23, 2019, the appellate court set aside the verdict of the Federal High Court and affirmed the candidacy of the deputy governor-elect, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo.
A three-man panel of the Court of Appeal led by Justice Stephen Adah held that the Federal High Court judge erred in his decision disqualifying the APC’s deputy governorship candidate.
“The appeal has merit and it is hereby allowed, the judgment of the lower court delivered on November 12 is hereby set aside. Order is hereby made dismissing the suit of the respondents,” Justice Rilwan Abdullahi, who read the appellate court’s lead judgment, held.
The Court of Appeal held that there were no enough grounds for the Federal High Court to rule the way it did, adding that the allegation that Degi-Eremienyo gave false information to INEC was not proved as required.
It faulted the lower court’s reliance on section 31(5 and 6) of the Electoral Act in disqualifying the APC’s deputy governorship candidate.
The court added that the allegations against Degi-Eremienyo were criminal in nature which required a proof beyond reasonable doubt.
Justice Abdullahi insisted that the Peoples Democratic Party and its governorship candidate in the election, Douye Diri, and Lawrence Ewhruojakpo, who were the plaintiffs at the lower court and respondents at the Court of Appeal, failed to prove their allegations against reasonable doubt. Jubilation In PDP National Secretariat
But with the ruling of the apex court on Thursday, jubilation broke out at the national secretariat of the PDP in Abuja.
PDP leaders and supporters were particularly excited that their candidate, Diri Duoye, will now be inaugurated as governor of Bayelsa State amidst the recent upset in Imo State where the same apex court had sacked their candidate after months in government. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I Received Supreme Court Verdict With Gladness— Atiku
Former vice president and presidential candidate of the PDP in 2019, Atiku Abubakar, said he received the Supreme Court judgment with gladness.
He said: “I received the verdict of the Supreme Court declaring the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Bayelsa State gubernatorial elections, Senator Douye Diri, as the duly elected governor of the state, with gladness.
“Senator Douye Diri had cause to visit me before the elections and received my blessings and counsel. I am fully satisfied that he has what it takes to make Bayelsa the ‘glory of all lands’. His intellect, personality, and character are a credit to Bayelsa and the PDP.
“I congratulate Senator Douye Diri and his running mate, Mr. Lawrence Ewhrujakpor. I also felicitate with the Peoples Democratic Party.
“The Lords Justices have given us another opportunity to show Nigerians that power belongs to the people, and we must make good use of this opportunity.” Tinubu, APC Leaders Shocked
However, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, national leader of the ruling APC, and other leaders of the party were shocked over the Supreme Court judgment.
A credible source close to Tinubu said the former governor of Lagos State was already making preparation to be in Yenagoa on Thursday night ahead of the inauguration today.
“We were all shocked by the ruling. Nobody saw it coming. Asiwaju has already concluded arrangements to be in Yenagoa on Thursday night for the inauguration which will take place on Friday morning. All that arrangements has been canceled now with this ruling”, he said.
Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), rejected the ruling, saying it is unjust.
Speaking with Daily Independent, Sagay said it is wrong for the apex court to ask Douye Diri of the PDP who lost the election to be sworn in as the governor of the state.
He also said it will be unfortunate if the Supreme Court gave the ruling to appease the PDP over the Imo governorship election judgment that removed Emeka Ihedioha as governor.
“That is very wrong. What they should have done is to nullify the election and let the APC nominate another person. This whole idea of the Supreme Court becoming electors of people who are defeated over those who are victorious is perverse and very wrong.
“That was what I complained about in the Zamfara case. It is unfortunate and to that extent, I totally disagree with it because it is unjust”. 
On his part, Prince Tony Momoh, a former Minister of Information, said there is nothing the APC can do than to accept the judgment as the Supreme court’s decision is final.
“The fact is that even if you don’t agree, the decision of the Supreme Court is final. It is final because there is no appeal again beyond the Supreme Court. Whatever ruling they give, no matter how bitter it is to you has to be obeyed. The ticket for president and vice-president, governors and deputy governors are one ticket. So, they swim or sink together. It is unfortunate but that is the law”. Nobody Can Be Sworn In As Governor— Oshiomhole
Meanwhile, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of APC, said on Thursday that the judgment of the apex court has left a vacuum in the state, saying no other candidate in the November 16 governorship poll met the required spread to be sworn in.
He stressed that no candidate other than David Lyon met the conditional spread, adding that in the worst scenario there would be a fresh poll in Bayelsa.
Addressing journalists at the party’s national secretariat, Oshiomhole explained that the court did not mention any party to be sworn in and that no candidate other than the APC candidate met the required spread.
“The court did not mention any candidate, the court did not mention any political party. The language of the court which you can find online in all major newspapers is that the court gave a conditional order, that INEC should swear in the next person with the highest vote cast if the person meets the required spread.
“The required spread in law is that the person must have scored one-quarter of the total votes cast in at least two-thirds of the local government areas.
“In this case, besides David Lyon, there is no other candidate in that election that meets the requirement”, he stated. PDP Attacks Oshiomhole, Says He’s Ranting
The PDP has attacked Oshiomhole, describing his comments on the ruling of the Supreme Court as empty and inconsequential ranting.
The party warned Oshiomhole to steer clear of Bayelsa State as his apparent plots to trigger violence in the state has failed.
The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, further counseled Oshiomhole to be careful with his utterances and not use any form of venomous garrulity and clear misuse of language to destabilise the nation and truncate its hard earned democracy.
“The people of Bayelsa State know as a fact that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) under our laws, cannot take instructions from any individual, let alone a factional national chairman of a dysfunctional political party like the APC,” the party said.
The PDP said as a law-abiding party, it counsels Oshiomhole to rein in himself and desist from all odious designs against Bayelsa State, her people and government.
The PDP insisted that the Supreme Court judgment that sacked APC’s David Lyon would not change its demand on Imo State, insisting that the apex court must right the wrongs in the Imo State governorship election judgment.
“Our party insists that the Supreme Court will be redeeming its image and restoring public confidence in its infallibility by reviewing the Imo verdict, given the manifold unjustifiable mistakes contained in that judgment,” the party said. Stop Inciting Remarks, Wike Tells Oshiomhole
Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, on Thursday called on the Federal Government to warn the national chairman of APC, Oshiomhole, to stop making inflammatory remarks capable of destabilising the country.
Governor Wike also slammed Oshiomhole for saying that there would be no swearing-in of the PDP candidate in Bayelsa State, noting that the APC chairman had no powers to make the declaration.
He said: “The Federal Government should warn Oshiomhole to stop making remarks that will destabilise Nigeria.
“What he is doing in Edo State is not proper and he should not bring it to the rest of the Niger Delta.”
He said that Oshiomhole lacked the power to make pronouncements after the Supreme Court had ruled on the Bayelsa matter.