Eighteen-year-old Daniel Maldini, the son of AC Milan great Paolo, made his debut for the Rossoneri right at the end of a 1-1 draw with Hellas Verona. Hakan Calhanoglu cancelled out Davide Faraoni’s opener and Sofyan Amrabat saw red for Verona at the San Siro. Christian Eriksen and Victor Moses made their Serie A debuts as Romelu Lukaku scored twice in a 2-0 win at Udinese that restored Inter Milan to second place. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network   Ashley Young and Alexis Sanchez were also involved in the Premier League old boys’ reunion, but the Chilean missed a good chance just before his former Manchester United team-mate Lukaku broke the deadlock in the 64th minute. Lukaku made it two with a penalty when Sanchez was wiped out by Juan Musso in the box. Lazio trounced lowly SPAL 5-1 as Ciro Immobile added two more goals to his growing tally. Felipe Caicedo also scored twice, with Bobby Adekanye rounding out the Biancoceleste bruising before Simone Missiroli provided some consolation for SPAL, who are now bottom. Lecce improved their chances of securing a second top-flight season by smashing Torino 4-0 with goals from Alessandro Deiola, Antonin Barak and Filippo Falco, and Gianluca Lapadula’s spot-kick. It was the southerners’ first home win in 11 attempts following promotion. Elsewhere, 10-man Genoa held Atalanta to a 2-2 draw in Bergamo. Cristiano Ronaldo converted two penalties in a 3-0 win over Fiorentina to match a Juventus goalscoring record and bring up the latest milestone of his illustrious career. Ronaldo struck from the spot in each half (40, 80) to stretch his scoring streak to nine successive Serie A games, equalling a club record held by former striker David Trezeguet. The Portugal international, whose double brought up the landmark of 50 goals for the Turin club, is two away from the Serie A record held by former Fiorentina striker Gabriel Batistuta, who struck in 11 straight matches in 1994. Fiorentina held their own for much of the game but Ronaldo’s cool head, plus a stoppage-time third from defender Matthijs de Ligt (90+1), ensured Maurizio Sarri’s leaders bounced back from last week’s 2-1 defeat by Napoli. “Ronaldo keeps on scoring and that is good for his state of mind,” said Sarri. “He’s in great physical shape and is making the difference. The other forwards also did well and the problem is who to leave out.”