OWERRI – It was indeed a political comedy in Nigeria from the days of party primaries across Nigeria particularly political parties that have significant presence nationwide. The outcome of party primaries and how they were grossly challenged by opposing political camps showed lack of internal democracy in the perceived dominant political parties. During general elections held early 2019, it was another comedy of errors as some members of electoral umpire compromised respectively their positions, those willing to perform optimally were frustrated and necessary tools were deliberately made not to function effectively. Available records indicate that Nigeria recorded 1,689 litigations arising from the 2019 general elections. This was disclosed by Mohammed Haruna, representing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as a national commissioner, during the post-election review retreat which was held in Lafia, Nasarawa State. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Haruna said that more than 890 litigations were pre-election matters arising from political party inadequacies, while 799 were election tribunal cases. According to him, pre-election matters are indications that political parties must work hard and adhere to internal democratic principles, while election petitions at the tribunals indicate that the electoral umpire in Nigeria has more duties to perform. Inadequacies from party primaries, commission or omission of the electoral umpire became an issue at the country’s judiciary, where surprises, agitations and perceived denial of justice became contentious issues. Imo State was not left out in the 2019 electoral tragicomedy across Nigeria. Most Nigerians, particularly the people of Imo State wondered how Senator Hope Uzodinma who according to INEC got the fourth position became the winner of the 2019 governorship election. Prior to the Supreme Court judgment in favour of Senator Hope Uzodinma, there were doubts over the possibilities of Uzodinma making a good governor. The perception index about him has moved from slow to speed lane despite the entire drama from the days of party primaries to proper election and subsequent verdict that made him governor. The Supreme Court judgement and the recent perception of him as a governor has made him a saint, judging from his initial carriage, comportment, administrative style, quick response mechanism and his willingness to work with structures or foundation laid by ousted Governor Emeka Ihedioha. “Saint” Uzodinma has so far shown maturity in politics. Acceptability among Imo political folk was no longer in issue, judging from mass defection of Imo legislators from the PDP to his political party, APC. Expectedly, he has been holding meetings with stakeholders including working class, business and political brass across the state. Political parties, notable personalities and some socio-political groups are already adjusting themselves to be counted and pledged their support and loyalty to Governor Uzodinma. In an apparent move to show solidarity, support and loyalty to Governor Uzodinma, the Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Chiji Collins and seven other lawmakers of PDP extraction on Tuesday last week defected to the APC. The members who defected at the floor of the house included the Speaker, Chiji Collins, representing Isiala Mbano State constituency, Hon. Dominic Ezerioha – Oru West, Hon. Chigozie Nwaneri – Oru East State. Others were; Hon. Kanayo Onyemechi – Owerri West, Hon. Kennedy Ibe – Obowo, Hon. Uche Ogbuagu – Ikeduru, Hon. Crown Micheal – Ihitte Uboma and Hon. Eddy Obinna – Aboh Mbaise state constituencies respectively. Nine house members had earlier defected to the APC, a development which placed APC 18, PDP 8 and AA 1. Prior to the emergence of Senator Hope Uzodinma as Governor, APC had only one representative at Imo State House of Assembly. Imo East (Owerri zone) PDP lost three Lawmakers out of nine representatives at the state assembly to APC. The lawmaker representing Emeka Ihedioha state constituency, Eddy Obinna of Aboh Mbaise was among the three lawmakers from Imo East that defected. In Okigwe North Senatorial zone, PDP lost all her six Lawmakers representing it at the State House of Assembly. Since his emergence as the new Governor of Imo State, Uzodinma in less than two weeks has visited the Imo State secretariat and has undertaken major state assignments, housing over 2000 workers. Senator Uzodinma during the visit resolved that his administration will reposition the Civil Service for optimal productivity and promised to bring back days of dignity confidence in the civil service. He promised the civil servants a housing scheme to be located at the three geo-political zones in the state. “Civil Service is like engine of government and for a long time, government was removed from the service. I have come to return government back to you. If we don’t get the Civil Service right, get the required motivation, provide job security and satisfaction, it means that the engine of government is broken down. I have come to give you hope, just know that the old order is gone and I have come with a new order. I have arranged with the banks, whether FAAC comes or not on or before 25th of every month, your salaries will be paid in full. Under no condition should you be paid anything less than your 100% salaries. “We will introduce a training programme for all cadres of the workforce, you need to update yourselves on the new digital operations which will obviously translate into greater productivity”. Governor Uzodinma during his maiden broadcast to the people of the state assured that Imo State will prosper under his watch. According to him, the era of Executive Lawlessness and neo-feudalism in the state was gone. Restoration of due process, financial discipline, re-invigoration of the health sector and security of lives and property, freedom of speech, security and shared prosperity welded into good governance will form part of the new Imo initiative. Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Recovery policy direction of the state government would ensure the recruit of 850 Community Health Workers, renovate and equip Community Health Centres in the 305 wards, procure modern diagnostic equipment, including CT scan and mobile X-ray as well as provide Rapid Response Ambulance Services (RAMS) at the Zonal Hospitals and Central Rural health Centres. The Governor was passionate about the sorry state of infrastructure at the Imo State University College of Medicine and the Teaching Hospital at Orlu and promised that the Public Health Laboratory and the Specialist Hospital in Owerri shall be equipped for lesser surgeries, as well as serve as Regional Medical Informatics Centres for the South East Region. The abandoned MRI and other sensitive scanning machines mysteriously transferred from IMSUTH Orlu to ‘OCHIEDIKE” shall be rehabilitated and restored for service. Governor Uzodinma promised to run an open and accommodating administration and warned political opponents that breach of public peace shall not be tolerated, stating that he has the responsibility to govern Imo State and will not hesitate to visit the full weight of the law on anybody who constitutes public nuisance. He said he was appreciative for the massive support which he received from the people during the election, and called for sustained cooperation to enable full realisation of his mission to bring prosperity to the state.