UYO  – President Muhammadu Buhari on has described the general wish “may the soul of the departed rest in peace”, as medicine after death, saying that one’s deeds while alive remains the only determinant factor to a deceased peaceful rest. Buhari who was represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, made this declaration in his message of condolence at the funeral service of Pa Gabriel Emmanuel Nkanang, father of the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel, held in Awa Iman, Onna on Saturday. The president who expressed optimism that a peaceful rest awaits the deceased, said the Late Pa Nkanang led a true Christian life and left behind an enduring legacy, which he said was evident by the quality of children he left behind. He congratulated Governor Udom on the legacy his father left behind saying, “Papa was in his lifetime a legendary teacher and headmaster, who taught and mentored thousands of students, many of whom are here today to celebrate his life and time. “But his greatest legacy will be the faithful and prolific spreading of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the Qua Iboe Church. Through the great work that he did, it was clear to all that not only was he a teacher and a mentor of men but also a leader and father to so many. “At funeral services such as this, one of the prayers is that ‘may the soul of the departed rest in peace’. But for many who are familiar with Christian theology, you would agree with me that the prayer is medicine after death. “The truth of the matter is that men and women rest in peace depending on what they do before they die and we know that Elder Nkanang not only served and loved the Lord Jesus Christ while he was here, and accepted him as Lord and Saviour, but he also propagated the gospel. So the confidence is that today, he is also resting in peace. “I say to the children of Pa Nkanang led by the Governor of Akwa Ibom state that you are very fortunate indeed. The scripture says in Deuteronomy 7:9, that ‘know the Lord your God, who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations’. Because your father loved God and kept his commandments, there is a promise of blessing for a thousand generations. “And so, we congratulate you on this great blessing that your father has left behind. The scripture says that a good man leaves an inheritance for his children children. That inheritance as we know is not money, is not property and is not wealth of any kind. This is what your father has left for you, the blessings of a thousand generations because he served the Lord Jesus Christ,” he added. At the well attended service were former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, Goodluck Jonathan, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, ex-Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Prof. Ben Ayade, Okezie Ikpeazu, Ifeanyi Okowa, Godwin Obaseki, Kayode Fayemi and Douye Diri of Cross River, Abia, Delta, Edo, Ekiti and Bayelsa states. The rest are former governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori, former governor of Cross River State, Mr Donald Duke.