LAGOS – In the build-up to the 2015 presidential election, President Muhammadu Buhari, then candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), vowed to defeat Boko Haram insurgents in the northern part of the country by providing government forces with better equipment, more training and more accurate intelligence. In one of his campaigns, Buhari, who was the major challenger of Goodluck Jonathan, the then president and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), stated that if the Jonathan’s government had deployed the same resources to fighting Boko Haram as it had to political ends, the Army would have rescued the more than 270 school girls abducted by the extremist movement in Chibok in April 2014. “I, as a retired General, and a former Head of State, have always known about our soldiers. They are capable, they are well trained and patriotic and always ready to do their duty to the service of their country. You can bear witness to the gallantry of our military in Burma, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Darfur and many other parts of the world. But, in the matter of the insurgency, our soldiers have neither received the necessary support nor the required incentives to tackle this problem. “The government has not made any effort towards a multi-dimensional response to this problem, leading to a situation in which we have become dependent on our neighbours to come to our rescue,” Buhari had said. Buhari boasted that if he was elected in the elections, “the world will have no cause to worry about Nigeria. It will be able to help itself. Nigeria will return to its stabilising role in West Africa and no inch of Nigerian territory will ever be lost to the enemy because we will pay attention to the welfare of our soldiers in and out of service. We will give them adequate and modern arms and ammunition to work with. We will improve intelligence-gathering and border patrols.” Fast forward to 2020, almost five years after Buhari took over leadership as the country’s president, nothing seems to have changed in the battle against Boko Haram. Despite all the promises made by the president during the 2015 electioneering, insecurity seems to be flourishing, especially in the area of insurgency and banditry. Though on several occasions, the President Buhari administration had claimed to have defeated Boko Haram, an allegation which many political observers believe is not true. In 2016, Buhari in an interview with the BBC, claimed that the Boko Haram militant sect had been technically defeated, despite continuous attacks by the group. Around that period, the terrorist group launched a deadly attack on Dalori, a village in Borno State, where about 86 persons were killed. The group was said to have burnt some children alive when it overran the community, which is four kilometres away from the capital city of Maiduguri. According to the president, “Well, all I know is that out of the 14 Local Government Areas in Borno State where they (Boko Haram) used to hold and hoist their flag, they are nowhere in charge of any of them again. But, they can still regroup and go after attacking soft targets.” When the BBC interviewer asked whether it was fair to say a group, which killed over 65 persons in a single attack, had been “technically defeated,” the president responded, “Well, that’s your own description of it. My own description is that they can no longer mobilise enough forces to attack police and Army barracks and destroy aircraft like they used to do. They can no longer do that.” Information and Culture Minister, Lai Mohammed, also said in 2015 that the Boko Haram militant group had been largely defeated, adding, “The Boko Haram sect knows they are on their way out. They lack the capacity to launch horrendous attacks they used to do in the past. We have succeeded in dislodging them.” He said the Nigerian Army had decapitated the Boko Haram body, maintaining that the government’s main concern was to resettle the internally displaced people. Also, the Chief of Army staff, Tukur Buratai, supported the position of the minister, saying that Nigerian soldiers have technically defeated Boko Haram terrorist group in the country. However, recent undertakings have shown that the present administration is far away from total victory against the insurgents. On Sunday, February 9, not less than 30 people were killed by the terrorists in an attack on Auno village on Maiduguri-Damaturu Highway. The villagers, while narrating their ordeal in the hands of the terrorist group to the state governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, said many other residents were abducted in the siege. They also lamented that 18 vehicles comprising of trailers, buses and cars were burnt by the insurgents who laid siege to their village at about 9.50 pm on Sunday. The gruesome attack left the villagers in tears, as women and children were loaded into three buses and driven away. The villagers lamented that most of those that were attacked were those that could not get into Maiduguri on Sunday as the gate to the town was shut against them having failed to arrive before the 5.pm deadline. One of the villagers, who spoke anonymously to journalists, said: “It is sad as the Boko Haram seems to have targeted the people knowing that many would have to sleep in Auno as the gate to Maiduguri would have been shut against them by 5.pm.” He further lamented that when the travellers arrived after 5.pm, the gate mounted by the military was closed and all vehicular movements had officially ceased, the insurgents came at night and killed everyone in sight. The state governor, who was visibly shaken when he saw the charred bodies of the victims of the attack, requested the military authorities to dismantle the Auno gate from its present position and move it further away from the village so that it would be more difficult for insurgents to gain access into the village. Zulum said the Borno State government would assist those whose vehicles were destroyed in the attack as well as those whose goods were burnt alongside the vehicles transporting foodstuff and other wares into Maiduguri. On Wednesday, while President Buhari was in Borno State to sympathise with the government and people of the state over the attack, 11 members of the same family were locked up and burnt in their house in Kaduna by armed bandits who invaded their Bakali Village in Fatika district of Giwa Local Government Area. It was learnt that the 11 victims were among 21 residents of the village who lost their lives to the unprovoked attack during which the gunmen set houses ablaze. A community leader and head of the family of the burnt 11 victims in Kaduna, Malam Sani Bakali, told journalists that the gunmen stormed the village around 4.pm on Tuesday and operated for two hours. “The bandits stormed our village on several motorbikes, brandishing AK47 riffles. Immediately they came, they started moving round the village, shooting sporadically. In the process, they came to our house and set it ablaze, with 11 people inside. All the 11 people were members of my family. They included three women and eight children, who were wives and children of my three younger brothers. “They also killed two of my uncles. While on the bush path, we discovered four other bodies burnt to death. They equally killed two Imams, one of them was my neighbour and a close friend. We just performed the funeral prayer for the victims this afternoon (Wednesday). Initially, it was 20 bodies that we buried before we later discovered one more body inside the bush, and we buried him too. “Right now, people have fled the village. I am the only one left because I have come to pick something. I just took one of my brothers and his two wives to Zaria. I am about leaving now myself. “Apart from those killed, there are nine people we are yet to see since after the incident. As it is now, we don’t know whether they have been killed or not,” Bakali said. While in Borno State, Buhari sympathised with the victims of Sunday’s attack, urging the people to cooperate with the military and other security agencies in fighting Boko Haram. He blamed the continuing terror and insecurity in Borno State and its environs on the community leaders. According to him, “Boko Haram cannot come up to Maiduguri or its environs without the local leadership knowing because traditionally, the local leadership is in charge of security in their own respective areas. “I call on the leadership at various levels to cooperate with the law enforcement agencies and let us deny Boko Haram access to our loyal citizens. I assure you that improvement in security will be pursued vigorously. The military will work harder and strategise with tactics to deal with the insurgents. This is, however, not possible without good intelligence and cooperation with local community leaders. “We will do our best and I hope history will be kind to us; to recall what was on the ground when we came and what will be on the ground when we leave. The cooperation of your people with our troops and other security agencies by providing credible information could end insurgency not only in Borno, but other states of Yobe and Adamawa.” In a show of disaffection, residents of Bulumkutu at the airport roundabout protested against President Buhari’s visit. They said the president’s visit was belated, after the loss of many lives and property in previous attacks and bombings in the state. Hours after President Buhari departed the state, residents of Jiddari Polo in Maiduguri were attacked, making the people running for cover. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said on Thursday that the leadership of the National Assembly would no longer tolerate the unnecessary killing of Nigerians by criminals threatening the security of the country. This was even as he demanded for a complete restructuring of the security architecture of the Nigeria Police Force, equipping of Police training institutions and training of men and officers of the Police Force. Lawan made this known in his concluding remarks on a Bill for an Act to Repeal the Police Act and enact the Nigeria Police Bill, 2019 to provide for a framework for the Police Service. Speaking on the security situation in the country, he said, “We are in a very unusual time. When Nigeria was at war at one stage, there was very rigorous recruitment of soldiers because the situation demanded that. “I think we are in a similar situation and it is only fair for us as leaders of this country to take this challenge. This bill should consider the restructuring of the command and structure of the Police. The present structure is not working, the Police Trust Fund is already accruing, the last count I was told there was about N52 billion or so, but it is not about throwing money to the Police. You need to adjust the structure, otherwise that money will just be a sinking fund. “So, we should be in a hurry to recruit, to train and retrain. Equipping the police training institutions is supposed to be one vital aspect of getting our security arrangements right, and this is something that we have to do in a hurry, even if it means going for supplementary budget, so be it. “The kind of situation we are in, with the lives that are lost on a daily basis is something we cannot tolerate, and in fact, we should be on the right side of history,” the Senate President said. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, had also on Tuesday requested the United States government to help Nigeria in combating the insurgents. Gbajabiamila, who made the appeal while hosting the U.S Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Leonard, in Abuja, explained that Nigerians are afraid about the incessant insecurity challenges and are looking up to the United States of America for assistance. “What is America doing to assist Nigeria defeat insurgency? Is the outcome of the Layee Act affecting the way international organisations operate? What is the status of the Tucano jets we paid for? “The House and indeed Nigerians are worried about the lingering insecurity in many parts of the country and many citizens of Nigeria are looking up to the United States of America for assistance to tackle this challenge,” he said. Also reacting, Femi Fani-Kayode, former Aviation Minister, charged the Federal Government to stop claiming that Boko Haram has been “technically defeated.” Fani-Kayode gave the charge while condemning the Sunday’s Boko Haram attack that killed about 30 people in Maiduguri, Borno State. In a tweet, the former minister wondered when the Federal Government would live up to its responsibility of defending Nigerians. Fani-Kayode tweeted: “30 people killed by Boko Haram & many abducted in Maiduguri, Borno State today. Is the FG still claiming that Boko Haram has been “technically defeated? “How cruel and insensitive can they be and when will they live up to their duties & honor their obligation to defend our people?” On his part, former Kaduna Senator, Shehu Sani, advised the Federal Government to take Governor Zulum’s comment about insurgent attack in Auno seriously. In a series of tweets on his verified Twitter handle, Sani condoled with the families of the victims and the Borno State government over the attack. “My condolences to the government and people of Borno State over the tragic and condemnable attacks and abductions in Auno today. The government of the state and the relevant security agencies must not relent in their efforts to end terror and restore peace and order in the state,” he tweeted on Sunday. In a follow-up on Tuesday, the senator, who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, advised the Federal Government to take the governor’s words seriously and take practical steps to prevent a recurrence. According to him, “The FG should listen to what Governor Zullum said on the tragedy in Auno and take the practical steps towards ending this violence; the observation will be useful since it didn’t emanate from activists, Northern Elders or the opposition who are always ‘politicising the issue.” This is just as he advised Federal Government against celebrating any triumph against Boko Haram until the insurgents have been finally defeated. “We have defeated them, we have decimated them, we have crushed them, we have exterminated them, we have annihilated them, we have pushed them, we have finished them; we have repeatedly raise our trophy in the middle of the race,” Sani added. Worried by the rising state of insecurity in the country, the House of Representatives on Wednesday asked President Buhari to declare a state of emergency on the nation’s security. The House also called for the investigation of low morale of military personnel serving in the North East as well as the establishment of special camps by the Army and withdrawal of Soldiers from checkpoints to the special camps. Unanimously adopting a motion of urgent public importance on the recent attack on travellers at Auno village, the House asked the military to henceforth stop the practice of keeping commuters over night at a particular period and allow them proceed on their journey after 6.pm. Sponsor of the motion and Chief Whip of the House, Mohammed Tahir Mongunu had drawn the attention of the House to the killing of about 30 persons by the insurgents at a military check point where they were kept by the military that closed the road and refused them from entering Maiduguri once it is after 6.pm. He said after closing the road and disallowing the travellers from continuing with their journey, the military personnel abandoned them there to their fate and were subsequently attacked with some of them, including an infant killed and others were kidnapped. Co-sponsor of the motion, Ahmed Jaha disclosed that among the vehicles that were trapped at the check point was a tanker belonging to the military and conveying petroleum product to Maiduguri, wondering how the military could also detain its own truck and leave it at the mercies of the insurgents. He alleged that the check point was closed by the Army 15 minutes before the scheduled time, leaving the travelers stranded, while the soldiers on duty went away to return the following day. While insisting that the attack on the travellers was avoidable and preventable, he blamed the failure of intelligence gathering for the attack, adding that prior to the attack, there was information making the round about the movement of the insurgents from one village to the other. Jaha said it was painful for leaders to stay in their comfort zone while their people are slaughtered, saying “this issue is of national importance. It is the North East today. Nobody knows where it will affect next. The lawmaker wondered why the military should introduce super camps in the area and closing check points while withdrawing soldiers to those special camps to wait for attacks by the insurgents. Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, said it was inhuman for the military to close the road and abandon their duty post without security for travelers and emphasised the earlier resolution of the House calling on the service chiefs to resign or be fired. He drew the attention of the House to a trending video on their social media of soldiers complaining of low morale, adding that the lawmakers kept talking about the same issue of insecurity on a daily basis without commensurate action. Elumelu said it was time for action on the issue of security in the country, saying, “Our brothers and sisters are being slaughtered daily in the North East. My worry is that one day, we will be chased out of this chamber. It is high time the right thing is done. Nigerians voted for President Buhari because he promised to protect them. I still stand by the House resolution that the service chiefs should go because they have outlived their usefulness.” The House resolved among other things to direct the Military Authority to henceforth stop keeping commuters overnight at a particular period on the Damaturu-Maiduguri Road and to allow them proceed on their journeys even after 6.pm They also asked the House Committees on Army; National Security and Intelligence to investigate the remote causes of the attack, while the Committee on Army should investigate the setting up of super camps and withdrawal of military from checkpoints. It is hoped that the Federal Government will heed to various suggestions that have been offered and find a new way to resolve the issue of insurgency in the interest of communities that have been hit by this menace.