Hon. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson is member representing Oshodi/Isolo constituency 2 at the House of Representatives. In this interview with select journalists, he spoke about his efforts in addressing poverty in his constituency, the challenges faced by distribution companies in providing regular electricity supply, and other topical issues. JOY ANIGBGOGU brings the excerpts: The report of Transparency International showed that Nigeria has risen on the corruption table; we also know that corruption is linked to poverty. What are the legislators doing to address this critical issue? Let us start with the budget. When you talk about corruption, you are also linking it with poverty and that is why at the floor of the house we advocated for increase in the capital budget by 40 percent. In the past, the capital budget has been oscillating below 40 percent, once you have a performance of 40 percent and above in your capital budget, you are spurring development, it is catalyst for development and once there is development, you are reducing poverty, because you are engaging people. Ii is our own little way of alleviating poverty through budget performance, increasing capital budget as against recurrent. The issue of corruption, I am happy you know the position of the government on corruption; you see the rate at which even former governors are being jailed, which implies that this present regime is not taking it kindly with corruption. All of us must support and partner with federal government if we want to get rid of corruption. Sometimes the activities of this global anti-corruption agency, is queried. Do you believe in the credibility of transparency international? They may be biased, no doubt about that but for me it depends on the angle you want to take it. Accessing the first edition of the programme, ‘Meet your Member of Parliament’ what has spurred you to want to carry out the second edition? I promised my people, it would be a monthly affair. You can see that the turnout in this edition is higher than what we had in the first. What that means is that the constituents must have gone out to tell other members of the constituency that they can have access to their representative, which is what I am happy about. This is an opportunity to interface with my people and I am happy about that. I don’t know most of them and if I can see them and we get talking, it would assist me in serving them better. Hopefully before the next election, the awareness that if you vote for your representative, he would not run away, would be there, and that is the message. The physical structure here, my constituency office also shows that I am not running away but, determined to serve my people. How do you rate constituents’ personal issues vis-à-vis constitutional issues? Poverty in constituency is very high. In my little way I have been assisting them with cash support, for their small businesses and the remaining 25 percent is for constituent issue, like, they want transformers, boreholes and also empowerment. Last December, I had an empowerment programme for them and more are still coming. I intend to empower about 1,000 people before 2023 and if I am able to do that, there would be this chain effect. If those empowered can engage about three to four people, then we should be talking about 4,000 people. I also have a programme, ‘Food For All Project’ where we distribute food to the constituents to lessen the effect of hunger. At what stage is your effort in the dredging of Oke Afa canal and the expansion of Mushin road? We moved a resolution on the floor of the house and the debate has been passed to the committee, which is being deliberated, and right now it is at the committee level. Lagos State government has awarded contract for the rehabilitation of Mushin road, not for expansion though, and I facilitated that. If the road is rehabilitated, and it is well done, it would make traffic floor better and when there is money, we would be able to expand the road. What is your view about the establishment of Amotekun in South- West region? The vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo had meeting with the south-West governors recently and I am happy that there was an agreement; each State was to go back to their various States and have a legal framework. With the legal framework that would give them backing, I am totally in support. I am in support of that because it is a way forward. If that can be done, the issue of insecurity would be minimised. As a member of the House Committee on power and works, what really is the problem with power supply in the country? To be honest with you, I want to say that federal government has done a lot to make power supply constant in the country. Government has privatized distribution; it is only generation that is still in the hand of government. The distribution companies (Discos) are complaining that they don’t have fund to carry on their assignment. They said there is disconnect between what they are spending and what they are getting and this is as a result of the decay in the infrastructure. In some areas, there are no transformers and other infrastructures. I am not trying to make case for them, but this is the reality. At the moment, it is only nine million people that are hooked in the net. But we need about 30 million people. If we get more people in the net, the proposed new tariff may not take effect. The biggest challenge is that a lot of people are illegally tapping the grid. They are tapping electricity without paying and this is affecting funding of the sector, which is why government is calling for increase in electricity tariff. What is your view on the state of the roads across the nation? The major problem facing the roads in the country is paucity of funds. Recently, the minister of Works and Housing said there were unpaid vouchers of almost half a trillion naira just for the roads alone. Right now, what is known as federal roads committee is in progress. If the committee is empowered, it would help to reduce the gap in the road sector. However, there should be a road bond which people should embrace to raise money for road construction. I strongly feel that once Nigerians are convinced that the money realized from the road bond would indeed be used to do the roads, they would key into it. The roads are not what the federal government would do alone. The citizens need to come into it. In fact, all hands should be on deck. At the moment, we have Sukuk fund, which is different from the basic budgetary funds that are being used for the construction of Lagos, Ibadan Express Way, Abuja, Kaduna, Kano road and the second Niger Bridge. There are still other monies that are tied down somewhere that needs governors to meet and approve. We have talked with the chairman of Governors Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi to make a presentation with his colleagues so that the money can be released to Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA).