Benin City – The Edo State government on Wednesday reacted to the serial bombings that have recently been recorded in the state, declaring that “this latest move by the EPM (Edo Peoples Movement) members is aimed at a declaration of a state of emergency in the state like what happened to Joshua Dariye of Plateau State”. Paul Ohonbamu, the Edo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, who reacted on behalf of the state government at a press conference in Benin, said Obaseki had no history of violence and had not known violence. According to him, “Governor Godwin Obaseki cannot be given to violence. What will Obaseki benefit from the assassination of Lawrence Okah and any other person for that matter? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “This latest move by the EPM members is to declare a state of emergency in the state like what happened to Joshua Dariye of Plateau State. “In terms of knowledge, moral, Obaseki is a multitude, and when men of integrity are counted, the governor will be counted twice. In talking of morality, Obaseki is a moral exemplar while others are moral lepers. “When you create tension when there is no tension, and giving the impression to the president and the whole world that law and order have broken down in the state, it is unfortunate. “Edo State government’s position is that all these enemies of the state will fail. Why not wait for the (governorship) primary? They want (the) ticket through the window. Why not wait for primary election to know how tactical you are? “The purported defection of Osagie Ize-Iyamu to APC was an omen of disaster. I don’t think that what is happening now is unexpected. This is exactly the kind of result you get when harlots and brigands copulate. “The tendencies are to embarrass the state, the smear campaign is to make the people believe that Governor Godwin Obaseki is not doing well in terms of security, but this is not the situation. “It is necessary for you to know that everything in terms of security architecture is in place. They are the ones that are doing all these. “It is necessary for us to talk to Edo people that this intervention has become very necessary. “The situation is becoming very severe even though it is not yet critical, but it is very necessary for us to put the issue in the right perspective so that Edo people will be the better judge. “Governor Obaseki believes in the rule of law, all the things he has done are in line with the rule of law. “I want to tell the people of the state to rest assured that nothing is happening, the governor is comfortable, is a covenant keeper, and he cannot be removed by these elements. “It is necessary for Edo people to know this so that they can be better judges.”