The trial of Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the 2016 governorship election in Edo State, and four others by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) will on come up on Thursday, February 13, 2020. They are to be re-arraigned on charges bordering on a N700 million election-related fraud. The anti-graft agency had filed charges against the accused persons bordering on illegal receipt of public funds for the purpose of the 2015 general election, contrary to the provisions of the EFCC Act and the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act. Other accused persons in the case are the Chairman of the Edo State chapter of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, a former deputy governor, Mr. Lucky Imasuen; a former member of the House of Representatives, Mr. Tony Azegbemi; and one Efe Anthony. The EFCC accused the defendants of conspiring among themselves to commit the offence in March, 2015. It alleged that they took possession and control of the funds without any contract award. It also said the defendants allegedly made huge cash payments of various amounts to several people without going through a financial institution. The case file is currently in Court 1, Federal High Court, Benin City, before Hon. Justice M. G. Umar, who is the presiding judge of the judicial division. Ize-Iyamu and the four other accused persons were earlier arraigned in 2018 before Hon. Justice P. I. Ajoku. But, due to the transfer of the Judge, the trial could not go on. However, credible sources at the weekend alleged that resort to technicalities and pressures from high-powered politicians in Abuja may cause the case to drag due to Ize- Iyamu’s defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking with our correspondent, one of the sources revealed that some stakeholders in Edo political space are relying on their contacts in Abuja to seek out means to get Ize-Iyamu off the clutches of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), seeing that he has crossed ship to the APC and is being touted to vie for the party’s governorship ticket in the September. An impeccable source, who craved anonymity, said, “There are clandestine moves to clear Ize- Iyamu’s name with the EFCC. So, we are calling on the people to keep a close watch on the case ongoing in Benin. Some of the power brokers believe that his name is soiled with the fraud case hanging on his neck. So, they are pulling the strings in Abuja to see if they can get him some soft-landing.” Recall that at the last adjourned date, counsel for Ize-Iyamu and four others had argued before the Federal High Court Benin that the charge sheet should be amended to exclude the name of Chief Tony Anenih, who died before the commencement of the trial. From information obtained from the court papers already filed, the name of Chief Tony Anenih is listed as an accused person “at large”. Counsel for the EFCC had opposed the application for the amendment of the charge and this made the Court to adjourn the matter to 13 February 2020 to enable the parties to file their written arguments. With this development, the proper arraignment and plea taking by the accused persons may be further delayed until the issue of the amendment of the charge sheet is resolved by a ruling of the Court. Speaking with Daily Independent, a chieftain of the party in Edo state, Festus Asiriuwa said they are following the case with keen interest. “We are interested in the Ize- Iyamu case and how the EFCC under Ibrahim Magu will handle it. Since he joined the APC, tongues have been wagging even amongst party faithful in the state. While a lot people believe it is to realise his ambition of becoming the governor of the state, however a lot of people believe it is to evade justice from the EFCC” “The man who persuaded him to join the APC publicly said once anybody committed any offence and he joins the APC, his sins are forgiven. We want to know if the EFCC will pursue the case swiftly and to a logical conclusion or allow it to drag and discard it based on technicalities as it has been alleged” Speaking in a recent interview on why he joined the APC, Ize- Iyamu said he decided to call it quit with the PDP because of the disarray within the party and not because he wanted to escape prosecution. According to him, if that was the case, he would have decamped in 2015 when the PDP lost the presidential election. While insisting that he was not a beneficiary of the $2.1b arms scandal fund , he added that he is not frightened about the case to make him leave the PDP for APC. “If that was the situation, maybe I would have quickly moved to the APC after the election. We were former President Jonathan’s coordinators; as such we were made to sign the fund that came through the banks to our different states, and those who utilised the fund have admitted”. “No fund was send to my account nor given to me. I have never denied the fact that I was a coordinator or signing for the fund. And I was not the only person. There are people who left the PDP for the APC but that has not stopped their prosecution”. “So, that is not an issue. It is neither here nor there. The case you are talking about is not something that one should be frightened about” he said.