Gabriel Martinelli has seemingly given Arsenal teammate Joe Willock a new nickname. The Gunners striker has been a popular member of the first team squad since his summer arrival in north London. And with Arsenal currently in Dubai on their mid-season winter break, Martinelli took to social media after a training session to poke fun at the England Under-21 midfielder. Like Martinelli, Willock is a fully established member of Mikel Arteta’s plans and has made 28 appearances in all competitions this season. The 20-year-old played the full 90-minutes in the 2-1 FA Cup win over Bournemouth and came off the bench in Arsenal’s two most recent Premier League draws against Chelsea and Burnley.  And his progress at the Emirates has been recognised by Martinelli in a tongue-in-cheek post on social media. On his Instagram story on Monday morning, the striker posted a picture of himself sitting with Willock and back-up goalkeeper Emi Martinez. The trio appear to be resting after a training session in Dubai, where the Gunners will remain until Tuesday. In the image, he tagged in both of his teammates’ handles, but after Willock’s, he added the letters ‘inho’ on the end with a Brazilian flag emoji. In Brazil, players are often known by their nicknames rather than their full birth names, and ‘inho’ which translates to small – is the suffix used for males. Arsenal supporters will certainly be hoping that Willock – or ‘Willockinho’, can live up to his new tag. Elsewhere, head coach Arteta has provided an update on what he has seen from his squad over the last few days, and explained why the club chose Dubai as a base for their training camp. “They needed three four days off to relax their minds and recover their bodies,” he said over the weekend. “They’ve been through a lot in the last few months and now I think they are ready to have five or six really good training sessions here before we go back to London and focus and prepare as well as we can against Newcastle. “This is what I want to create. The new players that we have, it is a great opportunity for them to spend time together with the other players, get to know each other, live together – the same for me with the backroom staff as well. “I think it’s going to be a very important break. We suggested Dubai because we have a close relationship with our sponsor, but also because it’s a place where the weather conditions are really good and the players like to come here. “We knew most of them were going to come here and relax with their families and be ready for training. Hours together, to spend together, grab a coffee together, to have conversations, to have unit meetings, individual meetings, group meetings about the things we have to achieve and to review what we’ve done. “I’ve made a big review of what we’ve done so far in these five or six weeks, the things we can improve, the things that we have improved a lot and that we have to maintain, that we cannot lose now. “Hopefully we can make another step forward as a team.”