Ado-Ekiti – The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Ekiti state chapter, on Sunday called on Federal Government to redouble its efforts in tackling the seeming intractable security challenge in the country. Revd Fr. Peter Olowolafe, the Chairman of CAN in the state addressing members lamented the situation and described it as unbearable. He explained that the Christians in the area decided to join others in the country to embark on the peaceful protest in order to express their grievances about the killings in the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Olowolafe, who is a Catholic Priest, cited several killings in the country in recent time to include the murdered of Revd Denis Bagauri in his house at Mayo Belwa of Adamawa state. Other killings cited by him are beheading of 11 Christian on Christmas day in Maiduguri as well as other killings of a bride to be in the area and the recent kidnapped of the good shepherd Catholic Seminary in Kaduna among others. The Ekiti Christian body helmsman called on the Federal Government to redouble its efforts at making peace to reign in the country. In a unanimous decision, the Christian body condemned the recent killings in some parts of the country and admonished the Federal a Government and the security operatives in the country to redouble their efforts and bring the situation under control. Several leaders at the association which include, Revd.  Joshua Orikogbe, Pastor Tunji Aina, Revd.  Peter Akintade and Joshua Kolawole, expressed their displeasures over the killings and digested that the president should overhaul the security council with a view of bringing in new heads with no religion or part of the country will dominate. Other suggestions made by the Christian leaders who are made up of different denomination are,  the Federal Government should either label the Miyetti Allah a terrorist organisation as being regarded in the terror index, the Federal government should ensure the release of Leah Sharibu and all those in the captivity of these terrorists among others.