A Fellow of the Carrington Youth Fellowship Initiative (CYFI), Mrs Modupeoluwa Darabidan, on Monday appealed that more youths should be equipped with data analysis and management skills, to ensure their relevance in the business sphere. Darabidan, Founder, iStarter Hub, who made the call at the CYFI induction in Lagos, said that the training would reduce unemployment in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the programme was organised by the CYFI and the United States Consulate, Lagos. Thirty youths were inducted to be trained on data analysis and management for the development of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) at the event. In her address, Darabidan said that in Nigeria, the private sector must, in the next decade, grow 10 to 15 times more significantly, to make an impact on unemployment and poverty. She said that data analysis helped businesses make strategic decisions, achieve meaningful goals and solve complex problems, by collecting, analysing and reporting the most useful information relevant to its needs. “In Nigeria, with the growth in youth population, unemployment rates have increased from 11.92 to 15.99 million in 2017. “Nearly a quarter of the population is out of work, and 20 per cent is underemployed; for young people aged 15 to 35, the figures are grim: 55.4 per cent of them are without work. “The SMEs are the lifeline of the Nigerian economy, and with data analysis and management, better decisions can be made. “Any business with a website, a social media presence, that accepts electronic payments of some form among others have data about customers, user experience, web traffic, and more. “All that data is filled with potential, if you can learn to access it and use it to improve your company. “Data could be about the causes of the current situation, the most likely trends to occur, and what should be done as a result,” she said. Darabidan noted that data activities could include identifying and verifying potential strategies and solutions, and testing the feasibility of the most favoured solutions. According to her, business analysts are in high demand because business decisions are more complex, and analysts help to ensure those decisions are based on the most accurate, valid and reliable information. “Analysts are experts at data analytics, especially in the fields of business. “Analysts understand the critical processes used in business and how those processes might be affected by trends outside and inside the organisation. “Depending on the current strategic priorities of the business, analysts might focus their expertise on the analysis of stakeholders, marketing, finances, risk and information technology,” she said. Also, Mrs Mariam Lawani, Chief Executive Officer, Greenhill Recycling, said data analysis and management serves to help SMEs gauge performance and to make amendment and improvement where necessary. Lawani explained that about 80 per cent of businesses in Nigeria were SMEs, therefore the need to focus on them to ensure their growth for economic development and sustainability of the nation was pertinent. “To achieve this, there is the need to be able to accurately analyse data, spot opportunities and make informed decisions for business growth and sustainability,” she said.