ASABA  – When the Chairman, Peace, and Reconciliatory Committee, Ide Austin Izagbo of Delta chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) boasted that efforts are in place to reconcile aggrieved members, he did not know it is an enormous task. Even though he accepted that there is so much trouble in APC, he promised to face the challenge with honour, courage and commitment to appreciate the confidence reposed in him by the party leadership. “There are tendencies and factions. I have joined APC as a party and I don’t belong to any of the factions, just like I don’t belong to any of the tendencies. So, I will do the job, together with my colleagues in the committee, with utmost honour, honesty and integrity. All decisions and suggestions we shall present to the party will be such that can be harnessed and geared towards having a formidable APC”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While he was going about that, on Monday the Delta State chapter of APC suspended its Deputy state chairman, Elvis Ayomanor and seven others for alleged gross misconduct and acts termed to have contravened the party’s constitution. The suspension was contained in a letter dated 26th, January, 2020, addressed to the Inspector General of Police, a copy of which was received on 3rd, February, 2020 at the Louis Edet House, Force Headquarters, Abuja and obtained by Daily lndependent Newspapers late Monday. The letter says the suspension/removal from office of the trio followed a Notice of Resolution dated January 18, 2020 by the Prophet Jones Ode Erue-led State Working Committee of the party. A letter announcing the suspension/removal from office signed by the State Publicity Secretary of the Party, Mr. Sylvester Imonina read, “Please be informed that in accordance with articles 21 (D) VI and 17 of the constitution of our great party, the State Working Committee (SWC) has approved the removal/suspension of the listed persons as officers of the party with immediate effect (see the attached Notice of Resolution dated 18th January, 2020) namely: Engr. Elvis Ayomanor – Deputy State Chairman, Mr. Tosan Awani – Vice Chairman, Delta South Senatorial District, Mrs. Janet Oyubu – State Woman Leader, Mr. Richard Egbo – Chairman, APC Okpe LGA, Mr. Johnson Ohwo – Chairman, APC Uvwie LGA, Mr. Ben Onwuka – Chairman, APC Oshimili South LGA, Dcn. Peter Umerah – Chairman, APC Oshimili North LGA and Mr. Cletus Elugbe – Chairman, APC Ukwuani LGA Meanwhile, the State Working Committee of the party, has announced the immediate replacement of the suspended party officials. The party named Moses Ogodo as the new the Deputy Chairman of the party in the state. Others are: Valentine Egbe who is now the Vice Chairman of the party for Delta South senatorial district, Anna Agoda Acting State Woman Leader, while Edafe Emakpor, Dennis Okorogben, Dr. Obi Esumai, Hon. Ozo Njoagwuani and Anthony Agam are now the party’s chairmen for Okpe, Uvwie, Oshimili South, Oshimili North and Ukuwuani local government areas of the state respectively. But Ayomanor has described his suspension and replacement for allegedly violating the party’s constitution and acts of gross misconduct as null and void and of no effects. Ayemanor said that the press statement purportedly suspending him and seven others was allegedly issued from the bedroom of the state party Chairman, Prophet Jones Erue by his personal Publicity Secretary, Sylvester Imonina who is not known to the executive of the party. Ayomanor in an interview asked the public to disregard the purported suspension is he say is illegal and from some disgruntled members of the SWC. According to him, “you are very much informed about the situation of our party, you are not a stranger. You are aware that it’s the consent judgment that gave us the power to remain as the State Executive Committee “The people in that consent judgment are the recognized executive of this state, that man who signed that press statement, one Barr Imonina is not the Publicity Secretary of Delta State APC; he is just Personal Publicity Secretary to Prophet Jones. “You can try to get the certified true copy of the consent judgement, you will see that Imonina is not our Publicity Secretary; our Publicity Secretary is Mr Felix Okpako. “Prophet Jones does not have the right to wake up in his bedroom and write on behalf of the State Working Committee. The SWC has not met since after the election neither has the State Executive Council met since after the election, so there was never anytime we took any decision to suspend anybody, they are jokers.” “The SWC has not met since after the 2019 election, this is as a result of the state chairman incompetency,” he added. According to findings, trouble started immaculately after the Supreme Court judgment affirming the election victory of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. The party in a statement congratulated the Governor and charged him to “be governor for all” In a statement signed by lmonina “ln the spirit of good sportsmanship, and for the sake of the good of Delta State, APC, Delta State congratulates, His Excellency, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa on his victory. He called on APC faithful in the state to unite to strengthen the party for future elections in the state. “However, we want to state unequivocally that APC, Delta State as a responsible and responsive Party will continue to point out the ills of the PDP led government of Delta State whenever the need arises. “The Governor should know that he is a Governor for all Deltans, not a particular section of the State or few persons. The needful should be done at all times in the area of employment and execution of quality and/ or masses’ oriented projects. The position of lmonina was said to have infuriated Ayomanor faction who pointed out that the congratulatory message was hasty and at the same time cannot congratulate somebody and at the same time continue to point out the ills of his government. This must have informed why the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State has accused the opposition APC of pretending not to see the massive infrastructural and human capital development that the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led administration is delivering to the people of the state. It said Deltans can no longer be deceived by APC as the party “does not see anything good” in the administration of Okowa thus its baseless allegation against the governor of being financially reckless. APC had in a statement accused the Governor Okowa-led PDP government in the state of being financially reckless for allegedly awarding contracts to unknown companies who end up doing substandard jobs despite the huge revenue accruing to the state. According to the APC statement, ” The level of financial indiscipline in the governance of Delta State smells to high heavens. But PDP in a statement signed by its State Publicity Secretary, Dr. Ifeanyi Osuoza, said the administration of Governor Okowa remained prudent and accountable to the majority of Deltans massively voted for him during the 2019 governorship election. On the allegation of financial recklessness leveled against the governor, the PDP spokesman said “In its latest hysterics entitled: “Your Government is Financially Reckless – Delta APC slams Okowa,” the party whose propaganda machine is handled by people without capacity, intelligence and comprehension says that it is accusing Governor Okowa of financial recklessness. “Is this not the same party that instigated other cheer leaders to institute name calling by singing the chorus of Ego aria, a vernacular reference to the prudent handling of resources in the State by the Okowa administration at inception following the financial down turn of the State. “It did not matter to APC to recall that the APC-led Federal Government of President Muhammadu Buhari announced to a bewildered nation that the country was in recession. No! But it pleased those behind the information that is designed to mislead in their mischief to turn derisively and mock the governor as one that is frugal and not spending money.”