In a near future, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) would unveil the 2nd Phase of its Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI), but without the amendment of the Insurance Act of 2003. In this report, APATA OYENIRAN, CHRIS EBONG and OLUSEGUN KOIKI x-ray loopholes in the renewed effort. Success is not final; failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts,” these were the words of Winston Churchill. This perhaps best describes the introduction of the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) into the insurance industry by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in 2009, post-2007 recapitalisation of the insurance industry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The commission, in its renewed initiative to drive insurance market development and penetration, had during that year introduced the MDRI to insurance operators. The thrust of the initiative was the implementation of the six Compulsory Insurance classes and made them a must-buy by the insuring public. The NAICOM’s thinking then was that if the six compulsory insurances were made into the marketplace, the insurance penetration, which was under one per cent and still is, would improve upwards to 3%, while the sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would also improve by the same ratio. Compulsory Insurances are those insurance policies, which every person must have or face penalties for default. In Nigeria, there are six insurance policies made compulsory by the extant law. These six classes of Insurance are made compulsory under their enabling laws and failure to comply with the law is regarded as a criminal offence and employees can also sue for compensation in a civil suit. The six Compulsory classes are Motor Third Party Insurance; Employee Group Life Insurance;   Health Care Professional Indemnity; Insurance of Public Buildings under Construction and Employers Liability Insurance. Motor Third Party Insurance As required by the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Act of 1950, the minimum insurance that owners of motor vehicles plying Nigerian roads are required to have. The policy covers liability for death or bodily injury to a third party arising from the use of the vehicle. Section 68 of the Insurance Act 2003 extends the liability to cover damage to the property of a third party to the tune of One Million Naira. It also makes it a criminal offence not to have a motor vehicle third party insurance policy and the penalty for non-compliance is imprisonment for one year or a fine of N250,000 or both. Employee Group Life Insurance As required by the Pension Reform Act of 2014 , section 9(3) of that Act requires every employer of labour with five (3) or more employees to take out a life insurance policy for a minimum of three times the annual total emolument of the employee. This law is applicable to both private and public sector employees. Failure to comply with this provision is an offence punishable with imprisonment for up to one year or a fine of N250,000 or both. Health Care Professional Indemnity As required by the National Health Insurance Scheme Act of 1999, section 45 of that Act requires all licensed health care providers to have a professional indemnity policy. The law defines a health care provider as any registered Government or private healthcare practitioner and hospital or maternity centre. Insurance of Public Buildings Under the Insurance Act of 2003,  Section 65 of that Act requires the owner or occupier of every public building to be insured against liability for loss or damage to property or death or bodily injury caused by collapse, fire, earthquake, storm or flood. The Act defines a public building as one to which members of the public have access for educational, recreational, medical and commercial purposes. The penalty for non-compliance is a maximum fine of N100,000 or one-year imprisonment or both. Insurance of Buildings under Construction as required by the Insurance Act of 2003, Section 64 of that Act requires every owner or contractor of any building under construction with more than two  floors must take out an insurance policy to cover liability against construction risks caused by his negligence or that of his servants, agents or consultants which may result in death, bodily injury or property damage to workers on-site or members of the public. This insurance policy also covers liability for the collapse of buildings under construction. Failure to comply with this provision is an offence punishable with a fine of N250,000  or three years imprisonment or both. Employers Liability Insurance As required by the Employee Compensation Act of 2010 (which repealed the Workmen Compensation Act of 1987), the Act requires every employer, within the first two years of the commencement of the 2010 Act, to make a minimum monthly contribution of 1% of the total monthly payroll of employees to the Employee Compensation Fund. The Fund shall be used to pay adequate compensation to employees or their dependants for any death, injury, disease or disability arising out of or in the course of their employment. Unfortunately, the initiative did not realise its set objectives due to the uncooperative attitude of the operators who then claimed that they could only market the insurance products, but had no power of enforcement as enforcement of compliance was exclusive of the commission that introduced them. The commission on its part was blamed for the lack of legal backing to prosecute defaulters and this contention led to the demise of the policy one year after it was introduced into the market space. Notwithstanding the failure at the inception, NAICOM has again announced what it described as the Phase 2 of the MDRI billed to hit the market soon, but without the necessary amendment of some provisions of the Insurance Act 2003 to give a necessary biting teeth to the commission in the course of the implementation of the insurance classes and enforce compliance and prosecute any offender of the Act. A billion naira question begging for an answer is how the commission will go about the enforcement of compliance without the amendment of the 2003 Insurance Act, which market watchers have described as the oldest in the West African sub-region and obsolete? What are the strategies the Commission would adopt in the course of implementation of the Compulsory classes without going against the provision of the law? Mr Sunday Thomas, the Ag. Commissioner for Insurance said that the commission had forged an alliance with various stakeholders to enhance insurance penetration. Thomas said the alliance would enable every household in the country to have access to insurance and that this would enhance the industry’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The NAICOM boss recalled that in 2010, Nigeria’s insurance sector was ranked fourth in Africa in terms of premium income, adding that the sector was 10th in terms of insurance density (premium per capita) and eighth in terms of penetration while the industry’s contribution to GDP is still at 0.48per cent contrary to 0.72 per cent predicted for 2012. He explained that the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) of 2009 was NAICOM’s project, to reduce the insurance gap and increase the industry’s contribution to GDP. “The project was to grow Gross Written Premium (GWP) from N164.50 billion in 2009 to N1 trillion in 2012. It aimed to reduce the insurance gap from 94 to 30 per cent in 2012,” he said He said the targets had not been reached, but the industry in 2016 and 2017 recorded GWP of N325 and N350 billion. Thomas said the commission had also kicked off the second phase of the MDRI to enable it to realise the targets. He said the Commission had signed agreements with several agencies like the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Federal Fire Service (FFS), to enforce compulsory insurance. On the issue of enforcement, Thomas stated that separate government organs had the responsibility to enforce the different aspects of insurance, for example, Motor Insurance. “The commission engaged with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) was able to develop what is now known as the Nigerian Insurance Industry Database (NIID), in which if you take an insurance cover today you would receive a text message, and if you don’t get that message then you should know that you have gotten your cover from a wrong source. That is part of the measures to tackle the non-compliance of motor vehicles insurers,” he explained. “We have realised that at the federal level, it would be difficult for proper enforcement to be carried out. We need to work with the State governments, and that is why sometimes two years ago we attempted to reach out to the Governors’ Forum, but it was not quite successful. In a bid to reinforce the enforcement of the MDRI, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has initiated the implementation of the 2nd phase of the project. Some of the areas of interest, which the Commission is targeting in selling the initiative, are the state governments and the use of strategic government agencies in a view to enforcing compliance. For the regulator, the State governments are strategic in promoting the compliance of the compulsory insurance through the enactment of States’ Insurance Law, while the security agencies have the mandate to enforce the extant law. Thomas, while speaking on the theme: ‘Strategic Focus of the Commission in the Year 2020; From Compliance to Development’ recently in Kano, said that NAICOM would vigorously pursue the continued implementation of compulsory classes of insurance in every nook and cranny of the country. Thomas said that the commission was not unaware of the challenges inhibiting the successful implementation of such classes of insurance, but had resolved to work with relevant stakeholders to ensure a seamless drive. According to him, the successful implementation of compulsory classes of insurance across the nation would ensure adequate protection of strategic national assets. “We will be working with the relevant security agencies to guarantee effective and efficient monitoring of compliance,” he said. Thomas also revealed that the second phase of MDRI would soon be unveiled. According to him, when released, it would mark out clear targets and tasks for all stakeholders to achieve. While financial inclusion strategy had been central to the Federal Government’s developmental plan, he added that the commission had over the years invested hugely in the development of such mechanisms. Thomas said that investment in this regard includes the introduction of Microinsurance and Takaful Insurance products. He said the introduction of such lines of insurance was intended to deepen the penetration of insurance in the country and bring into the fold, the majority of the populace that was hitherto excluded. “So far, some milestones have been recorded in this regard with three standalone Microinsurance and four Takaful insurance companies already granted approvals,” he said. According to him, the commission will in 2020 continue to introduce new reforms and initiatives in line with international best practices for attaining the level of growth and development desired for the sector. The Acting Commissioner said that as the year continues to unfold, giant strides would be made by the commission in all aspects of its statutory responsibilities. Thomas said that the initiative of the commission to recapitalise the insurance sector was a move to ensure that the industry becomes more robust in its technical competence and financial base. He said it was also to build confidence, trust and enhance market value. According to him, ‘this is aimed at repositioning the sector for self-actualisation in terms of growth and development’. “Let me state in clear terms that the recapitalisation process is up and running in line with the roadmap and the Commission will see to its logical conclusion come December 31, 2020. “The task of building an insurance sector of our dreams is a collective one and thus, all hands must be on deck to ensure our dreams become realities,” he said. He explained that the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) of 2009 was NAICOM’s project, to reduce the insurance gap and increase the industry’s contribution to GDP. “The project was to grow Gross Written Premium (GWP) from N164.50 billion in 2009 to N1 trillion in 2012. It aimed to reduce the insurance gap from 94 to 30 per cent in 2012,” he said He said the targets had not been reached, but the industry in 2016 and 2017 recorded GWP of N325 and N350 billion. Thomas said the Commission would soon kick off the 2nd phase of the MDRI to enable it to realise the targets. He hinted that the Commission had signed agreements with several agencies like the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Federal Fire Service (FFS), to enforce compulsory insurance. The success of the MDRI lies basically in the successful enforcement Compulsory insurance classes and its compliance by the public. To this end, the operators have always looked forward to legal backing that would ignite the public into buy-in. For them, the regulatory initiative could serve as a veritable tool for the industry to experience a turnaround. Mr. Eddie Efekoha, Managing Director, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc, described these developments and regulatory initiatives of the commission as a bitter pill that must be swallowed to get a sick baby healthy. Efekoha blamed non- enforcement and non-patronage of compulsory insurance in Nigeria on lack of knowledge by concerned parties and various government agencies charged with the responsibility. He expressed concern that though the compulsory insurance had been in existence over the years, Nigerians have not been complying with the regulation, while the masses who fall victims of the reason for the compulsion have been at the receiving end. Mr. Sunday Adegbesan, Executive Director, Technical, Sterling Assurance Company Limited, said in as much as the MDRI concept is good and such that would drive growth of the sector, enhance insurance penetration check the initial teething challenges militating against the success of the initiative in the 1st phase of its implementation have to be removed. The initial hindrances, which stood the way of the initiative in the 1st phase, according to him, are political environment, socio-economic, the government factors, public perception about insurance, corporate attitude, among other factors. He stressed that these factors are still on the ground and until they are removed not much would be achieved in the 2nd coming of the MDRI. Aside from that, Adegbesan noted that the political, socio-economic and other environmental factors are not supporting the growth of insurance in the country, adding that insurance can only survive where an economy of a nation is healthy. He reasoned that even the various tiers of governments in the country are not yet ready to support the insurance, asserting that even the ongoing recapitalisation of the companies cannot change the perception under the MDRI initiatives. For him, what insurance needs are what he described as a radical and a holistic change not only for the industry, but for the entire populace citing a situation where every Nigerian would think insurance as his first line charge and embrace it.