It was reported recently that former Super Eagles player and captain, Joseph Yobo, has been named the assistant Coach of the Nigeria’s national team (the Super Eagles). Yobo is a Nigerian who had so many professional caps abroad, an ex-international whose playing career during his days even at Everton was remarkable. The period he captained the Eagles as a defender and his over lapping runs will ever remain memorable in the hearts of Nigerian football bedfellows. By this development, the former assistant coach to the Eagles in the person of Yusuf Salisu, who was caught in the act of bribery and was eventually suspended for his corrupt practices, could be something to cheer about that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) had finally done away with the coach whose ban on football malpractice has elapsed and was not reinstated. At least, that, for once, would serve as deterrent to others whose love for money over merit, standard, integrity and discipline over their career in their various places of designation is commendable. If yours truly reflects on the stewardship of Salisu Yusuf as assistant to Coach Gernot Rohr, I will not give him a pass mark. I say this because I do not know what kind of work relationship between the duo for the Eagles. We have had several foreign coaches in Nigeria and some of them clearly rejected “Nigerians” as their assistants. Coach Clemens Westerhof came into Nigeria, he brought a physical trainer (a compatriot) coach Bonfrere Jo and one chosen  Nigerian, Coach Christian Chukwu, who worked with both Dutchmen in the country. The trio Coaches under Westerhof won all the laurels on the soil of Africa in the CAF nation’s tourneys and qualified Nigeria first time ever in Tunisia when they won the unity cup fourteen years after in 1980 before the Dutchman’s arrival in Nigeria. When Westerhof left Nigeria, the responsibility fell on Bonfrere Jo who also rejected late Stephen Keshi as assistant coach, saying Keshi had no coaching credentials. Alas, Keshi signed in for three months “crash” coaching programme in the USA before Jo was persuaded to accept him by the then NFA. Although, the relationship did not last; they were both incompatible. Keshi was moved to U-21 where he failed woefully that year in Ethiopia in CAF championship. Nigeria did not win a single match; not even against a Burundi team; thereafter, Keshi was sacked and he returned to the USA before the coming of Coach Willy Bazuaye whom, in conjunction with Jo, won the Olympic gold in Atlanta’ 96 in the USA. The rest is history in this regard. I and those in my school of thought do not know what pedigree Joseph Yobo possess—is it his playing experience  abroad as professional or as former captain of the Eagles? Has Yobo Coached anywhere in Nigeria, Africa nay the world, even though he has a Coaching certificate? Was this appointment based on sentiment, favouritism or the part of the country where he comes from? Too many questions here begging for answers because the Super Eagles must not be ridiculed again! The governors of football in Nigeria must not toy with destiny of the nation’s senior team. Good administrators must do their utmost best to lift the standard of its national team vis-à-vis good coaching structure, professionalism, committed and disciplined players and, of themselves too, prove to the people as worthy administrators! In this vein, the populace will believe and trust their leadership! Joseph Yobo! Welcome on board! EXTRA-TIME Bash Ali Appeals To Sunday Dare On GRWBF Boxing legend, Bash Ali had sent a strong passionate appeal to the sports minister, Sunday Dare, reminding him of his “World Boxing Project”. The letter which was addressed to the Honourable minister early this week, the Edo born boxing champion prayed the minister to grant him the following requests, praying  he should expediently approve the out of court settlement to pave way for the host of the first Guinness World Boxing Championship (GRWBF) in the soil of Africa. Secondly, to restore his security and relocate him to his official hotel for the historic fight and also as a matter of urgency arrange for him a courtesy visit to President Buhari to officially present to the President the Guinness World Record Boxing fight souvenirs and a special boxing gloves to “Knock out” corruption in Nigeria! Good Morning Nigeria!