The security challenges in
the country have become the subjects of concern to many Nigerians in the past
few days. The National Assembly is not left out in this apprehension and had
made se­curity issue in the country a pri­ority, so we believe. How
serious is the Senate on the issue of insecurity still remains vague to many
Nigerians, who still doubt the sincerity of the National Assembly, pointing out
that the loyal­ty of the lawmakers from a keen ana­lytical point of view, tilt
towards the executive more than to the people. However,
since it resumed on January 28, the National Assembly had not hidden its
feelings on the security challenges ravaging the nation and has joined other
Nige­rians to call on President Muham­madu Buhari to review his security
architecture. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In its
resolution last week, the Senate called on President Buhari to declare state of
emergency on insecurity in the country. Going
forward, the Senate had not also only called for the restruc­turing of the
security architecture, but had set up a 17-member Com­mittee to engage the
security agen­cies on how to address the worry situation. Concern
of the Senate was also extended to the police hierarchy. The Inspector General
of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had on invi­tation on Wednesday spent four hours
with the lawmakers in the red chamber, explaining the best method of addressing
insecurity in the country. He had explained that community policing is one of the
best options to tackle the menace of insecurity in the country. He had
said: “We believe that ev­erybody comes from a community and the community
is a communi­ty you know who and who is there. Taking policing back to the
commu­nity will help in reducing crime to the barest minimum. “So
I have explained the concept of community policing to the Sen­ate which
involves partnership with communities and there are various communities. You
can have traditional institutions as a community. You can have the Na­tional
Union of Road Transport Workers as a community. You can have the media as a
community and various communities that you can have partnership with. If you
are talking about partnership we are talking about problem solving. We need to
solve problems that evolve in the community.” Expressing
concern over the de­teriorating security situation in the country, the
President of the Sen­ate, Ahmad Lawan said setting up a committee to look into
the security challenges in the country goes to show the relevance the
Legislature attaches to the issues connected with national security. “The
Legislature also seeks a Security Sector Reform (SSR) that will transform the
security sector and assign roles and responsibili­ties in a manner that is
consistent with democratic norms and the principles of good governance. These
principles include respect for the rule of law, transparency, accountability,
and public trust. “The nation must initiate
the process to formulate or re-orient the policies, structures and capac­ities
of institutions and groups engaged in the security sector in order to make them
more effective, efficient, accountable, and respon­sive to democratic control
and to the security and justice needs of the people. “We must recognize the
inter­relations between the qualities of Security Sector Governance (SSG)
within the context of sustainable development as no nation can de­velop in the
face of gross insecurity. “All hands must be on deck
to contribute towards ensuring good Security Sector Governance (SSG) that will
promote peaceful and in­clusive societies for sustainable de­velopment, provide
access to justice for all and build effective, account­able and inclusive
institutions at all levels,” he said. Lawan, in his welcome address
when the National Assembly re­sumed from its Christmas and New year break, had
said that the securi­ty situation in the country requires serious attention and
due consider­ation by the Senate and indeed the National Assembly. Insisting that the security in
the country had deteriorated and the attendant loss of lives is not acceptable,
Lawan said “we need to secure the lives and property of our citizens, as
enshrined in our constitution. We all are witnesses to how our economy is also
affect­ed by the inclement security situa­tion. Therefore, we need to speedily
seek for solutions to fix the security problem bedeviling our dear coun­try. “There is urgent need for
para­digm shift and reform of the archi­tecture and structure of our secu­rity
systems. Equally important is the citizen participation, and col­laboration in
providing security. In this regard, the Senate will engage the executive arm of
government to discuss the implementation of the recently launched National Se­curity
Strategy (NSS) 2019. The Senate had in its resolutions
during the debate on the security situation in the country, urged Pres­ident
Buhari to declare a national security emergency. It asked the Committee it set
up to engage the National Security Adviser on the implementation modalities of
the December, 2019 national security strategies; engage the National Security
Institutions to discuss their operational structures, fund­ing, equipment and
staff disposi­tion with a view to reviewing the national security architecture
to make it more responsive in tackling the myriad of security challenges facing
the nations and the people. And also to produce a draft im­plementation
modality/blueprint on the ways and means of tackling the current security
challenges for the consideration of the Senate. But the observation of Lawan,
has, however sent jitters down the spines of many Nigerians. This fear is why
some Nigerians are asking if the Senate is playing the Ostrich. Lawan had after the resolutions
of the Senate, urged Nigerians to pray so that all its resolutions will be
implemented by the executive, adding, “we should prepare our minds because
is not everything that we resolved that will be imple­mented by the executive,
we have to pray.” This statement, many Nigerians have said is pregnant
with mean­ings. Some analysts have opined that the Senate may had tricked Ni­gerians
to believe that it is taking a tough stand on insecurity, whereas, like an
orphan, it will depend on the crumbs that falls from the master’s (executive’s)
table. The question again is that is the senate playing the ostrich?