Minister of Foreign Af­fairs, Mr. Geoffrey
On­yeama, said on Tues­day, that the federal government has begun working on
the security and information shar­ing requirements for the lifting of the U.S
travel ban on prospective immigrants from Nigeria. Speaking
at a joint news confer­ence in Washington with U.S Sec­retary of State, Mr.
Mike Pompeo, Onyeama said Nigeria was ‘blind­sided’ by the U.S decision to add
it and five other nations to an ex­panded version of the U.S visa ban. President
Donald Trump had issued an expanded version of his travel ban penultimate
Friday as part of a presidential proclama­tion, which said Washington would
suspend the issuance of visas that can lead to permanent residency for
nationals of Eritrea, Kyrgyz­stan, Myanmar and Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It comes
into effect on Febru­ary 21, 2020, and Nigeria is the only country in West
Africa sanc­tioned by the U.S Department of Home Security following a review
and update of the methodology (performance metrics). Temporary
visas for tourists, business people, students and workers from those nations
will not be affected, it said. U.S
officials said the countries failed to meet its security and infor­mation-sharing
standards, which necessitated the new restrictions. “We’ve
identified all those re­quirements and we have actually started working on all
of them,” Onyeama said. “It is
actually very straightfor­ward and it was very gratifying to come here and meet
with U.S offi­cials and to understand more clear­ly the reasoning behind it,”
he said. “We look
forward to being taken off this visa restriction list,” On­yeama said, once all
the criteria are met. Pompeo
also said he was ‘opti­mistic’ that Nigeria would make the necessary changes. The
Presidency had earlier con­stituted a special committee to re­view the U.S
travel restrictions on the country. The
committee, which will be headed by the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola,
will among other terms of reference, iron out ways not to strain Nigeria’s
relationship with America. A
statement by the Special Ad­viser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi
Adesina, confirmed this development in Abuja penulti­mate Saturday. The
original travel ban, issued in 2017, barred nearly all immigrants and travelers
from seven countries with majority Muslim populations. The policy was revised
amid court challenges, but the U.S Supreme Court ultimately upheld it in 2018. Trump
has made tougher immi­gration enforcement a central focus of his 2020
re-election campaign. His travel ban policy is popular with Republican
supporters. The U.S
government said it in­formed Nigeria and all foreign governments of a change in
its per­formance metrics for identity-man­agement and information sharing
criteria on March 11, 2019. This was
contained in a proc­lamation published on the White House website. It said all
affect­ed countries were among the worst-performing in the world. However,
it said there are pros­pects for near-term improvements for the six countries. “The
process began on March 11, 2019, when the United States government formally
notified all foreign governments (except for Iran, Syria, and North Korea)
about the refined performance metrics for the identity-management and
information-sharing criteria,” the proclamation read. “DHS
identified the worst-per­forming countries for further interagency review and
for an as­sessment of the potential impact of visa restrictions. “In
addition, the United States government, led by the department of state,
continued or increased en­gagements with many countries about those countries’
deficiencies. “A
number of foreign govern­ments sent senior officials to Washington, D.C., to
discuss those issues, explore potential solutions, and convey views about
obstacles to improving performance. “As a
result of this engage­ment, one country made sufficient improvements in its
informa­tion-sharing and identity-manage­ment practices and was removed from
consideration for travel re­strictions.” Reps Lament Visa Restrictions The House of Representatives
has decried the visa restrictions imposed on Nigerians by the Unit­ed States. While the House said the sanc­tion
was preventable, parliament blamed the Federal Government and its officials for
not heeding the earlier warnings by the U.S. The House, therefore, at the
ple­nary on Tuesday, resolved that the leadership, led by the Speaker, Femi
Gbajabiamila, should meet with all relevant stakeholders towards ensuring that
the U.S removes the restrictions. A member of the House, Taju­deen
Yusuf, moved a motion of urgent national importance titled, ‘Need to Unravel
the Circumstances that Led to Immigration Restriction by the United States of
America, Seek Quick Resolution and Prevent Future Occurrences.’ The lawmakers, who unani­mously
adopted the motion, urged the leadership of the House to interface with every
relevant gov­ernment agencies and diplomatic missions towards resolving the is­sue
and preventing similar future occurrence. They also urged the Executive
to expedite necessary actions that might lead to the review or cancel­lation of
the immigration restric­tion. Moving the motion, Yusuf said,
“The House is concerned that due to the tardiness of some govern­ment agencies
and officials, Nigeria was unable to meet the deadline for performance metrics,
identify man­agement and information sharing criteria, which has led to the un­fortunate
immigration restriction order placed by the USA on Nigeria. “The House observes that while
Nigeria, through relevant agen­cies and top officials, was not able to meet the
criteria, some develop­ing nations like Chad and Belarus did the needful and
were exempted from the immigration restrictions. Seconding the motion, Sergius
Ogun, lamented that the U.S had denied him visa to visit the country. Ogun said, “The Nigerian gov­ernment
had two years to do some­thing about this but they did not do anything. We
refer to countries like Chad as ‘small countries’ but they took time and
responded. Do we have to go this low?” Former Vice President and Pres­idential
candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections,
Atiku Abubakar, said he received the news with sad­ness, just as he appealed to
Presi­dent Donald Trump to direct the new policy on government official, who
failed in their duties. In a statement personally
signed by him, Atiku urged President Trump to consider adopting mea­sures that
individually target those in government who have failed in their duties, rather
than target the entire Nigerian population. According to him, “While I
understand the reasons given by the Trump’s administration (the failure of the
Muhammadu Bu­hari-led administration to share information and to address issues
of terrorism), the ban does not take into account the pro-American sen­timents
of the Nigerian public and the solidarity previous Nigerian administrations
have had with the United States. “I urge the government of Pres­ident
Donald Trump to consider the history of U.S-Nigerian rela­tionships. Nigeria
was one of the few African nations that joined the U.S led coalition during
Operation Desert Storm in 1990-1991, when the United States championed the
liberation of Kuwait. “The Trump administration may
also consider the pivotal role Nigeria, in partnership with the U.S, played in
bringing peace to Liberia, an American sphere of influence, that now enjoys
democ­racy because Nigerian blood and money paved the way for peace in that
nation. “Nigeria has also consistent­ly
voted in support of the United States and her allies at the United Nations and
other multi-lateral world bodies. This is even as we are perhaps the biggest
trading partner that the United States has in Africa, even where we had
alternatives. “Nigerians love the United States and have been a major force for the positive development of that great nation: 77 per cent of all Black doctors in the United States are Nigerians. Nigerians are also the most educated immigrant com­munity in America BAR NONE. Surely, the U.S stands to benefit if it allows open borders with a country like Nigeria that is able to provide skilled, hardworking and dedicated personnel in a two-way traffic.” Atiku
noted that the current Ni­gerian administration may have its deficiencies and
deep faults, “but the Nigerian people ought not to be punished for their
inefficiencies,” he added. PDP Blames Buhari Presidency,
APC The PDP
said that Nigerians should hold the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives
Congress (APC) responsible for the negative impacts of the proposed travel sanc­tions
imposed on the country by the United States. PDP, in
a statement by its spokes­man, Kola Ologbondiyan, described the sanction as yet
another huge misfortune brought by the Buhari Presidency and the APC, which
have continued to wreck the nation with its compromised handling of security
issues, in addition to es­calated bloodletting and human rights violation under
their watch. The
party lamented that the trav­el ban will have grave consequenc­es on economic,
educational, and healthcare opportunities; hurt fam­ily and social ties as well
as further put pressure on the overall national economy. “More depressing
is that the APC and the Buhari Presiden­cy have been reversing diplomatic gains
achieved by previous admin­istrations while gradually pitching our nation against
other countries of the world with its poor record on security, corruption and
human right issues. “Our
party is worried that our nation that, have become a global destination and
investment hub un­der the PDP, is now being pushed back to a pariah status
under the incompetent and divisive APC, as reports from other members of the
international community, includ­ing credible international organi­zations, have
continued to raise concerns on security and human right issues under the Buhari
ad­ministration. “Only
recently, our nation was rated as third country with the highest level of
terrorism in 2019 after Iran and Afghanistan, in the Global Terrorism Index
rating by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP). “This
is in addition to damning reports by reputable organizations including Amnesty
International (AI), Transparency International (TI), European Union (EU),
United States Department of State among others, which in various indepen­dent
reports, raised grave issues of escalated corruption, violation of human
rights, disregard to rule of law, abuse of processes, election rig­ging and
poor handling of security issues under the APC. “The
APC administration has failed to rejig its security high command despite the
calls by Ni­gerians, in the face of worsening se­curity challenges and mass
killings in our country under their charge,” the party said. PDP also
expressed concern that the APC-led administration had failed to take a decisive
step to apprehend and prosecute per­petrators of acts of terrorism in­cluding
the mass killings in Benue, Nasarawa, Bauchi, Taraba, Kogi, Adamawa, Borno,
Yobe, Zamfara, Kaduna, Ekiti, Kogi and other parts of the country under the
current administration. The
party restated that such failures by the APC had continued to bolster
insurgents, bandits and kidnappers to continue to launch deadly attacks on
Nigerians. “Moreover,
the APC has failed to account for hoodlums and polit­ical mercenaries it
imported from neighboring countries to assist in unleashing violence on Nigerians
during the heavily rigged 2019 gen­eral elections,” the party said. The PDP
urged the National As­sembly not to relent in its efforts to take decisive
action on securi­ty, as the travel ban is a wake-up call on the leaders and all
critical stakeholders to address the issues at stake. The
party, however, called on the United States to ensure that the ban does not
hurt innocent Nigerians who are also bearing the brunt of the poor handling of
security in the country under the APC adminis­tration. Administration Worse Than
Abacha’s Era – CUPP The
Coalition of United Politi­cal Parties (CUPP), in its reaction, noted that the
travel ban is one of the visible signs of the pariah state, which President
Muhammadu Bu­hari has turned the country into. CUPP, in
a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugo­chinyere, said it was shocked to
receive the news, just as it alleged that the regime of late General Sani
Abacha, in all its ingloriousness, “was far better than this present
administration.” According
to the Coalition, “All indices are pointing to the fact that this All
Progressives Congress gov­ernment is bent on running this country aground. All
parts of the country are currently under securi­ty siege with killings,
kidnappings, banditry and insurgency becoming the order of the day. “The electoral impunity being
displayed under this government has reversed the gains of electoral reforms
carried out by past admin­istration. “Poverty is endemic on a large
scale and it is visible wherever one turns to in the country while cor­ruption,
especially in high places, has continued unabated, adding to
judicial/legislative rascality and ethnic cleansing that we have been living
with is this international os­tracization.” CUPP, however, called on Pres­ident
Buhari to resign before it is too late to save the country from the
consequences of his “alleged incompetence.” We’re Not Surprised – AYCF On its part, the Arewa Youth
Consultative Forum (AYCF) said it was not surprised by the decision of the
American government, not­ing that the failure of the present administration to
curb criminal activities going on in the country led to such decision. National President of AYCF,
Shet­tima Yerima, in a statement said, “I am not surprised because, you can­not
live in a society where all sort of criminalities go on and, on the part of the
government, they are not do­ing enough to arrest the situation. “Especially, when it has to do
with the issue of insurgency, where­by you arrest them and subsequent­ly, grant
them pardon or whatever you call it. It is disastrous. And, you now bring them
back, saying that you have rehabilitated them and bring them to the society
immedi­ately. This is not done anywhere. “So, it gives America a lot of
concerns and worries. None of us, truly, sees it as anything surpris­ing
because, from all indications, we are already in a war situation as it is,
presently. The worst aspect of it all is that, even those on the side of
government are not helping matters. “All they do is, as soon as you
make a statement against what they do or think it should be, they confront you
on it. Instead of ad­mitting their wrongs and seek for quality advise on what
should be done to salvage the situation be­cause nobody has the monopoly of
knowledge. It is high time for them to
wake up from their slumber before it is too late and begin to look at issues
critically and appreciate the fact that we are already at war,” Yeri­ma said. This Is Very Embarrassing –
Agoro Former presidential candidate
of National Action Council (NAC), Dr. Olapade Agoro described the travel ban as
very embarrassing and a “dirty slap” on the face of Nigerians and the
government. Agoro explained that the ban is
not only embarrassing to the coun­try and leadership but to the entire African
continent of which Nigeria is the largest economy. He maintained that the travel
ban portends that Nigeria is an econom­ic risky nation not fit to relate with,
just as he pointed out that the action may scare away those nations and investors
who might be interested in doing business with Nigeria. According to him, “The embar­rassing
situation no doubt to the government and citizens of Nige­ria, will be found in
U.S classing and castigating us as a careless and risky nation lacking basic of
minimum security standards.” How Did We Get Here – Odutemu? In his reaction, Most Reverend
Cyril Odutemu, Bishop of Ughelli Diocese and Arch Bishop-elect, Bendel
Province, Anglican Com­munion, explained that the Amer­ican government cannot
make a pronouncement without due con­sideration of all the facts and issues at
stake on the global scene. Odutemu explained that for the
United States’ government to have extended the ban to Nigeria means that it has
a genuine reason for its action. He said rather than condemn
Trump for its decision, “we should ask questions to know why we are included.
The U.S may not have banned all countries of the world. I will not support the
ban but our leaders, particularly the Nigerian Ambassador to the U.S have a lot
of explanations to make.” Visa Restrictions Long Overdue
– VATLAD On its part, the Vanguard for
Transparent Leadership and De­mocracy (VATLAD), lauded the US Visa restrictions
to Nigerians. Its National President, Comrade
Igbini Emmanuel, said it was with excitement and joy that the body received the
news of the decision by the government of United States of America to further
restrict Nige­rians from migrating to the U.S to seek permanent residency. According to him, “we therefore
highly commend President Trump for approving all categories of U.S Visas issued
to Nigerians that will afford them the opportunity to have Permanent Residency
Status in the U.S.” He said the Visa restriction
was long overdue and not even adequate enough. “We have been demanding
for a total U.S Visa ban on Nigerians particularly those privileged elite class
in politics, public, private and religious sectors of our country who callously
loot or share from the proceeds of loots of our coun­try and travel to the U.S
and other organised and developed countries to invest and enjoy such loots. “Such unpatriotic elites
should be banned globally by all developed countries of the world from travel­ing
to seek even medical care. “We have no doubt that
President Trump is indeed a true friend of Ni­geria who means well for the prog­ress
and development of our dear country. He made it very clear from the day of his
inauguration that he will no longer allow the elite looters of our commonwealth
to come to the U.S to enjoy such loots while hundreds of millions of Nigerians
are wallowing in increasing abject poverty and dying from preventable
diseases” Emmanuel stated. It’s A Violation Of Rights Of
Individuals – CDHR However, Chairman, Committee
for the Defense of Human Rights, (CDHR), Comrade Prince Taiga condemned the ban
on Nigerians migrating into the US. While he expressed displeasure
over the recent development, he noted that the action of the Unit­ed States is
a violation of rights of individuals to rightfully migrate. He said no reason should be an
excuse for the decision, saying that, America is corrupt also, adding that
there is no country that is not corrupt. “Most of our politicians have properties in U.S,
would they also be banned from traveling to the U.S or is the ban squarely for
the com­mon man?” he queried.