Lagos – After quitting FC Saxan Gagauz Yeri of Moldova in 2015, ex-international, Sani Keita teamed up with FC IfeanyiUbah of Nnewi for a professional career where he could help to light up the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL). The plan was part of an agreement between the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) and the League Management Company (LMC) for former players to come down home upon retirement from active football in Europe and team up with domestic clubs in order to further boost the status of the local league. But after signing for the Anambra Warriors, the midfielder played for the club for less than two months before disagreement forced him to dump the team owned by billionaire businessman, Dr. Ifeanyi Ubah. Trouble started with the player going against the club when they played a league match in Port Harcourt and the management requested that the players return to Nnewi that same evening even when it was getting dark because they had another game to play two days later. The match started by 4pm and ended some minutes after 6pm, and the club, it was reported, said they were returning that same evening, to the disapproval of the former Super Eagles midfielder. He reportedly contended that it was quite late and that he was not going to go back to Nnewi that evening, a stand the team’s owner reportedly considered an act of insubordination. The decision led to face-offs and there were then no love lost between the once celebrated acquisition and the team’s management. However, speaking to reporters after the club declared him missing; Keita noted that he left the club after FC IfeanyiUbah reneged in their agreement with him, even as insiders confided that Sani lost all the attention the moment he insisted on not travelling back to Nnewi with the rest of the club after that Port Harcourt game. Keita said: “I had an agreement with the team. I agreed terms with the club chairman, he promised I will get what we agreed in two days. “I played four matches for the team, but they failed to fulfill their own part of the agreement. “I made several efforts to make them respect the contract, but the chairman never responded. I have all the conversations I had with him. “I gave them a time frame to do what they needed to do, but they failed, so I was left with no choice than to leave the team.” But as was reported then, Keita court the trouble with the club because of his alleged ‘insubordination’ after their Port Harcourt game. This is the same challenge the clubs and the players are facing with midweek matches becoming a norm, even at a great risk to the players, their careers and their safety. Midweek games remain the blight in the Nigeria Professional Football League, which has produced excellent results in the recent past and even in the ongoing season. As analysts contended, there were a lot to celebrate in the ongoing season. For instance, there have been 23 away wins this season, which is unprecedented since 2015. 2015 holds the record of the most away wins in the contemporary Nigerian topflight. In the 2014/2015 season, 31 away wins were recorded and this season has proven to be capable of dusting that record and trashing it into the dustbin of history with the way clubs are going with away wins. When the newly promoted Dakkada Football Club of Uyo defeated Rangers International at the Cathedral, Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium in Enugu, a fan of the Flying Antelopes told our correspondent that the home team fans celebrated the visitors. Even as their acts were condemnable as no fan is allowed to cross the fence into the main bowl, one positive derivative from the fans’ action was the way they reportedly shoulder-lifted the players of Dakkada, who defied all odds to defeat the Flying Antelopes before their fans. Also at the same stadium, the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) Football Club of Lagos piped Rangers 1-0 without any issue from the local fans, who also reportedly appreciated and elevated the game above soccer extremism and equally celebrated with the Lagos side. Also, MFM tested the bitter pill of home defeat when Enyimba piped them 1-0 in Lagos; it was also a moment devoid of any issues from the home fans. In Uyo, Akwa United were once defeated by Kwara United, and their fans leaving the stadium unscathed. Also, close neighbours, Dakkada FC, have lost three times in Uyo without any fuse. They were beaten by Kano Pillars 1-2, Akwa United 0-1 and Nasarawa United 0-3. In all these results, there was complete calm from the home fans. Continuing as part of the good developments in the ongoing season, MFM went to Owerri and defeated Heartland 1-0, with the latter recently defeating Enyimba 2-0 in Aba. Heartland also beat Kwara United 1-0 in Ilorin. In a volatile ground like Kano, Lobi Stars went to the Sani Abacha Stadium and beat the home team, Kano Pillars, 1-0. Similarly, Plateau United won Kwara United in Ilorin, while Wikki Tourists have lost twice at home as FC IfeanyiUbah and Sunshine Stars defeated them 1-0 and 2-1 respectively. In Warri, Warri Wolves have lost twice at home without any issue from the home fans. They were beaten by Rivers United 1-0 and Rangers 2-1 before their home fans. In Kano, their adopted home, Jigawa Golden Stars have been breached twice as both Plateau United and Akwa United piped them 1-0 respectively. For Adamawa United, they have capitulated three times at home. The trio of Sunshine Stars, Lobi Stars and Rivers United defeated them 3-0, 2-0 and 1-0 respectively. Similarly, the bottom placed Nasarawa United have lost three times at home and their conquerors were Wikki Tourists, Kwara United and Warri Wolves who beat them 1-0, 1-0 and 2-1 respectively. In all these situations, the fans conducted themselves and preferred to elevate the game above crisis and that is one of the highpoints of the ongoing season, even as a pocket of crisis was witnessed in the match between Katsina United and Kano Pillars in Katsina where the home team accused the referee of overlooking a ‘genuine’ penalty call. Apart from that, the season had witnessed minimal issues but excellent officiating by the referees, whose safety had been assured through the right conduct from the fans. But stakeholders have opined that the continued playing of midweek matches in the country would tend to not only weaken the players but cut their span in the game. According to FIFA recommendations, players must have at least three days’ rest before the next match, while an article from https://www.aspetar.com suggested that 72-hour recovery or more for sportsmen, particularly in sports like football and basketball, was necessarily if they must give their best. The 72 hours should not involve the time within which the players and officials will make movement to their next venue, but should be included if the team will fly for a shorter distance for the next game. Coming down to Nigeria, players travel several kilometres on road with attendant risks to honour matches, with their performance seriously affected. Take a situation where teams like Enyimba or Abia Warriors, or even Akwa United and Dakkada FC have to travel to Maiduguri for a game, as has been the case in the past. According to Google Map, the distance between Umuahia and Maiduguri, for instance, is 1,141 kilometres with approximately few minutes to 20 hours journey expected by road while it is 938 kilometres and about one hour plus by air. Hardly is there any Nigerian club that travels by air. It is obviously a risky venture for players to, for instance, finish their match in Umuahia on Sunday and set out for a journey to Maiduguri the following day for a match on Wednesday. In such scenario, they will be expected to leave early, meaning that their sleep will be affected that night after a grueling game. Setting out early, say by 5pm, the earliest they could get to Maiduguri will be 11pm, meaning that they will have less than six hours sleep before waking up for their training. It also means that they have just one day to rest before hitting the field for their match, which is abysmally short going by the global recovery time frame. Also, no sooner will the match finish that they will be thinking of toeing the same long distance back, and this will greatly affect their performance and their health generally. No wonder players in the domestic league tended to age quickly. But weekly game schedules would have helped to arrest such ugly situations. While midweek games are sometimes the norm in Europe and other places on the planet earth with fast means of transportation like trains and airplanes, the inherent risk in Nigeria and other developing climes should certainly discourage teams from midweek games, which will leave little or no room for players to recover from fatigue. In Nigeria also, several teams have been attacked in the past armed robbers, while travelling for their games, particularly in the night with high risk. They will resort to night travels in order to meet up time. For instance, in 2015 and while travelling to Owerri to honour one of their midweek matches against Heartland, Kano Pillars players came under bombardment within the Abaji territories of the Federal Capital Territory. Even though no live was lost, many players sustained varied degrees of injuries. Speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, a player of Enyimba who pleaded anonymity said it was only God that had been protecting them, admitting that midweek matches without adequate transport means were bad. “What players pass through is not quite exciting; when you travel a long distance to honour matches, you will understand what I am saying. If I have my way, they should stop it if there is no effective transport means,” he said. Also speaking to our correspondent, Zachary Baraje blamed the midweek games on irregular calendar of the league, noting that if the starting and ending dates were harmonized, there would be no need for midweek games. “It is because we don’t even know when to start and end the league because if we have a uniform calendar, there is no way we can be having midweek games. The times are too short between matches and I don’t think it is good for the players,” he said.