Senator Kashim Shettima, immediate past governor of Borno State has advised the Nigerian Defence Headquarters to speedily constitute a credible panel that should transparently generate facts on how 30 passengers lost their lives on Sunday night in Auno, Bormo State. Boko Haram gunmen had on Sunday night attacked and massacred over 30 travellers that were stranded outside the military entrance city gate outside Maiduguri which was usually locked by 5 p.m. Shettima, who gave the advice in a statement he released on Tuesday in Abuja, represents Borno Central Senatorial District where Auno town is situated in Konduga Local Government Area. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said, “In recent days and weeks, there has been growing resurgence of unfortunate attacks by the callous Boko Haram in some parts of Borno State. Of them all, the incident at Auno on Sunday night has been the most dehumanising and disturbing. As Senator representing Borno Central where Auno is situated, I have the option of lobbying my colleagues and sponsoring a motion for the Senate to constitute an investigative panel on the Auno incident which clearly begs for some answers. “However, as someone who knows firsthand the number of soldiers that have given their lives to protect the people of Borno State, I will prefer to concede to another option. This option is that the Defence Headquarters, which coordinates and supervises all components of the Nigerian military, immediately, constitutes a multi-stakeholder panel of credible persons that should speedily gather all the facts relating to the Auno incident. “The panel should as a necessary condition, request representatives from Borno State Government, Auno community, bereaved families, transport unions etc. The fact finding, which should be concluded within days, is to ensure justice and fairness for victims and to prevent future occurrence particularly by looking into the most acceptable and efficient motorists can be managed in the midst of the insurgency that we hope is ended soonest,” Shettima said. The former governor commiserated with families whose loved ones were affected by the attack, the people of Auno, the state government and the entire people of Borno State.