A lot has been said and done about the Amotekun project instituted by the governors of the six Southwest states, Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti. On Thursday, January 9, the governments of the said states converged in Ibadan to launch the South- West Security Network better known as Operation Amotekun. S i n c e t h e n , Amotekun has become a popular subject almost every Nigerian can say something about, and most of the chatter has been highly controversial due to the many controversies surrounding it. While the purpose of the security outfit was drowned amid controversies, Amotekun, which was originally a regional intervention to the many security challenges controversially became a conundrum the Federal Government needs to solve. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Unfortunately, while a lot of focus has been on the political implications of the project, many have ignored the benefits and advantages of Amotekun to the development and sustainability of tourism in Southwest states. Tourism fails every time as a result of insecurity in host communities. The truth is that insecurity has hindered the development of tourism in Nigeria. Since attaining independence in 1960, Nigeria has had its own fair share of security challenges and this often affect the socio-political and economic activities to the extent that security issues have remained a fundamental problem to successive governments and the generality of the people. Some of the sources of security challenges in Nigeria have been identified to include: socio-economic agitations, ethno-religious crises, ethnic militias, political and electioneering conflicts, cultism, and criminality, boundary disputes, just to mention but a few. However, even with the level of insecurity in Nigeria, Southwest Nigeria was considered to be one of the safest parts of the country, and for that reason, tourism in the Southwest thrived better a little better than some other parts of the country. However, in the last few years, unexpected kinds of insecurity have trickled into border communities of many Southwest states, and our failing tourism potential almost sputtered to an absolute stop. Local tourists abandoned travel all together for fear of kidnap, robberies on the highways and other forms of harm. With the creation of Amotekun, that problem is half solved as guests, visitors and travellers can again move freely within the states with some level of security assurance. This is sure to improve our economic situation in the region, and that the ripple effect of that will be felt in other regions of the country. Instead of criticising and politicising Amotekun, it is an initiative that should be replicated all over Nigeria.