Chief Sunny Onuesoke,  a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has faulted  the release of no fewer than 1,400 suspected Boko Haram captives by the Federal Government of Nigeria. Onuesoke who condemned the action of the Federal Government while addressing journalists in Lagos said releasing the captives under the disguise of ‘Repentant Boko Haram’ is setting bad precedent to Nigerian soldiers, police and civilian JTF who are who are losing their lives daily in the course of  fighting the dissidents at the battle field. The former Delta State Governorship aspirant said it is amazing  that people charged with treason and mass murders are rehabilitated, forced to accept repentance, clothed and fed with public resources then released back without any form of bond on them. According to him, this same people may even find their way back into Boko Haram’s camp and start killing our soldiers and innocent Nigerians. “The authorities are releasing them, but Boko Haram are killing soldiers that they captured. This does not make sense to us at all. Our security will continue to sweep across the bushes to flush these people out, and then the government will release them. Does that not amount to wasted efforts?” “How do you expect the police and soldiers fighting these terrorists to feel,  knowing that the killers can come out tomorrow with a claim of repentance and they will be reabsorbed straight back into the society? ” Why should a soldier risk his life defending such a nation? A nation that regard the life of terrorists  more than that of an unknown soldiers. Why should America open her door to citizens of a country that celebrate terrorists and treat them with kid gloves?” Onuesoke queried. The PDP chieftain who claimed he is suspicious of the reason behind the release of the captured insurgents accused the government of  sympathising with Boko Haram, alleging  that    they see an attack on Boko Haram  an attack on the North. He argued that if the reason of Government for setting the Boko Haram captives free is because they have repented, it will be better  to  as well share questionnaires to prisons in Nigeria   to ascertained those that are remorseful and repentant of their sins  to be released. “Why do you need to arrest them in the first place? Wiping them out during confrontation is the only solution to terrorism. With this recycling moves,  I can attest that the fight against  Boko Haram will be endless,” he stated.