US job growth accelerated in January, with unseasonably mild temperatures boosting hiring in weather-sensitive sectors. The figures indicated that the US economy will probably continue to grow moderately despite a deepening slump in business investment. The Labor Department’s closely watched monthly employment report, however, showed the economy created 514,000 fewer jobs between April 2018 and March 2019 than originally estimated. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The biggest downgrade to payrolls over a 12-month period since 2009 suggests job growth could significantly slow down this year. US non-farm payrolls increased by 225,000 jobs last month, with employment at construction sites increasing by the most in a year amid milder-than-normal temperatures, the government’s survey of establishments showed. There were also strong gains in hiring in the transportation and warehousing industry. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast payrolls would rise by 160,000 jobs in January. Data for November and December was revised to show 7,000 more jobs created than previously reported. But employment gains are expected to slow in February as the coronavirus, which has killed hundreds in China and infected thousands globally, disrupts supply chains, especially for technology companies such as Apple. The annual benchmark revisions to payrolls will attract attention amid concerns the Labor Department’s Bureau of Labor Statistics, which compiles the employment data, may not be fully capturing the impact on payrolls of President Donald Trump’s 19-month trade war with China. The trade war has contributed to the longest downturn in business investment since 2009. The downward revision in the level of employment suggests the government’s birth-death model, which it uses to calculate the net number of jobs from new business and closings, is faulty. Economists say payrolls have tended to be overstated when the trend in growth is weakening. They say the downward revisions could impact financial markets’ assessments of the labor market. The slowdown in job growth is blamed on worker shortages and ebbing demand for labor.