Awka – It was a sad early Saturday morning in Amanse, a town in Awaka, capital of Anambra State as three persons died instantly and eight others sustained severe injuries in a fatal crash involving a Toyota Hummer Bus and stationary truck. Speaking on the unfortunate accident, the Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Anambra state, Mr Andrew Ayodele Kumapayi, said the unfortunate incident was caused by a lorry conveying stationaries. According to him, the Toyota 14-seater bus going to Lagos from Taraba State rammed into the packed lorry and three persons were killed instantly while eight others sustained various degrees of injuries. Kumapayi also said that the Hausa community at the Cow Market where the fatal crash occurred this morning have barricaded the road, saying that there would be no movement in that axis of the Enugu-Onitsha Highway unless Governor Willie Obiano comes to the scene of the crash to see how officials inspecting farm produce cause accidents in the area. Meanwhile, the situation report on the ghastly auto-crash as compiled by the Public Relations Officer of the Commission, RC Paschal Anigbo, reads: “A fatal road traffic crash was recorded today Saturday 15 February 2020 at Amanse, just after the Cow Market, along Awka-Enugu Old Road. “Two vehicles and 14 Victims were involved in the crash which claimed the life of three adult males, and eight others sustaining different degrees of injuries. “The vehicles involved were: A stationary DAF Lorry with registration number, GGE167XP suspected to be faulty and a Toyota Hummer Bus with registration number, BAL 266XA. “According to an eyewitness, the crash occurred around 6.00 am. The eyewitness said the bus was on top speed and rammed into the stationary lorry. “The bus was driven by one Ibrahim. They were on their way to Lagos from Jalingo, Taraba State. “The area has been cordoned off, and traffic control is ongoing. The FRSC team has also rushed the injured victims to Chukwuemeka Odumegu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, Amaku Awka. The dead are also being evacuated to the same hospital. “The Sector Commander Anambra State Sector Command, CC Andrew A. Kumapayi consoled with the family of the dead and wishes the injured victims a speedy recovery. “He advises motorists to ensure they place adequate caution signs whenever their vehicles breakdown along the road.”