Stakeholder in the oil and gas industry has stressed that a new digital platform, EnergyHub will drive the sector’s operations. Dr Felix Amieyeofori, Chairman, Entek Integrated Resources Limited, while speaking interacting with journalists in Lagos on the impact of EnergyHub on oil and gas operations, stated that the new digital marketplace and collaboration platform will drive effective operational growth in Nigerian energy industry. Amieyeofori also disclosed that EnergyHub has debuted in the Nigerian energy space that was designed to provide seamless collaborations amongst all industry players in the energy sector in the oil and gas – service providers, operators, original equipment Manufacturers (OEM), investors, regulators, academia, renewable energy, energy information and technology providers. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Amieyeofori, who is also the Lead Promoter of “EnergyHub TM”  said the digital marketplace  or “Collaboration Room”  was aimed at empowering B2B, B2C and C2C collaboration for businesses that provides energy to Africa. He said that the platform, EnergyHubTM provides the digital space for Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), Vendors and Suppliers, Service and Technology Providers, Free Zone Operators, Oil and Gas Operators, Regulators and Government Agencies, the Academia, Professional Associations and all Stakeholders in the Energy Spectrum, to interact and collaborate seamlessly via a few clicks. “l see that lots of people both in and out, were not able to access information in the industry.  They don’t know what is happening in the industry. Sometimes, somebody like me is being called on how to get vessels or materials for their operations and l suggested that, it will be nice if we can create an EnergyHub or “Collaboration Room” that everyone both operators and stakeholders can access if they wanted something in the industry. “The platform provides a space where all Energy Stakeholders can enquire, acquire, lease, sell, advertise, and market their products and services just at the push of the button. “Our vision is to see all stakeholders in the oil and gas, and the broader energy spectrum to efficiently transact their businesses within a digital community at any time” said Dr. Amieyeofori. He said that the business to business interface will support quick business decisions that will significantly eliminate wastages in terms of time and costs in service and product delivery. Dr. Amieyeofori, who was the former MD/CEO of Energia, also highlighted the benefits that EnergyhubTM bring to the Academia as it creates seamless interactions between the School and the Industry, and with the Industry Regulators within the Energy ecosystem. He said this also offered Territory Institutions the platform to showcase their creativities in Research and Development to a wider Audience and Business community for recognition and partnership. He, however,  said the platform will also facilitate the placement of students Internship, and even employment opportunities in the Industry. Ms Blessing Muoneme, the Corporate Business Manager while commenting on the vision of this new platform, pointed out that Energyhub will further provide topical Energy news and updates, events/conferences and business intelligence for all its partners. According to her, “This is to ensure that all our partners are kept abreast with every information that will enhance their business decisions. “The benefit of the EnergyHub TM is massive. The vision is to offer opportunities for research based economy where both oil and gas operators, academics and researchers can tap into the opportunities. “It’s also beneficiary to the media, for instance, if they have breaking news on the oil and gas sector, we would pull it out from their website post on the EnergyHub  website worth the newspapers names accredited. “Because it is a hub that brings people together, we are also looking at collaboration with the media houses.”