ABUJA – Ovie Omo-Agege, Deputy President of the Senate, has described litigation seeking to disqualify him on account of allegedly being an ex-convict in the United States as a mere distraction. Boasting that he could not be intimidated by sponsored irritants, the Senator representing Delta Central said that he has put all such distractions behind him. Omo-Agege, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, said some faceless political foes were hell bent on distracting the National Assembly leadership from the path of cooperation with the Executive arm of government to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The statement said the Deputy President of the Senate spoke at the weekend in Abuja when kings, elders and religious leaders from Urhobo Kingdom paid him a solidarity visit. Senator Omo-Agege said the attempt to remove him as Deputy President of the Senate and as Senator, may not be unconnected with the 2023 political intrigues. Recall that last week, Justice Othman Musa of the FCT High Court in Bwari Abuja, had dismissed the suit challenging the eligibility of the Deputy President of the Senate over an alleged conviction in the United States of America. Speaking on the matter for the first time since the court judgment, Senator Omo-Agege said, “I am not a politician who can be intimidated by anybody; for those enemies at home, they know me very well but I am sure that those who participated, they did so with cover from others outside of the state who really did not know me well. “If they know, like the local enemies, that I am not easily intimidated, I am very sure they wouldn’t have gone on this fruitless voyage. “This is not the first time we have been through this; I pray it is the last time. But to the extent they chose not to make it the last time, they also have me to contend with because I don’t suffer fools gladly. “For those who don’t know, they will get to know in the not too distant future. “But having said that, I saw all of it and those behind it as mere irritants who were determined to distract me and the leadership of the National Assembly from the path of cooperation with the Executive arm (of government) to enable us deliver the dividends of democracy as promised to our constituency during the electioneering campaigns. “I am glad and indebted to the leadership of the Senate and indeed all of my colleagues who saw through this from the very outset and called it what exactly it is: that they were just people who were mischievous, doing permutations with respect to 2023 when no one knows who will be alive tomorrow. “In doing this, they factored in a lot of things but one thing I believe they forgot to factor in is the God factor because if you look at our trajectory, on our own, we are not supposed to be where we are. “The only reason we are here today is because God said we have to be here; we are not here because we are the smartest, the most intelligent, most popular or most powerful. So, we believe that those who are fighting us are fighting God and that is not the kind of battle you want to be involved in because you don’t have the chance of winning that battle.”