LAGOS  – The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has disclosed plans to acquire Phonic Bird Wailers in its efforts to reduce the effect of wildlife and bird strikes on operating airlines in the country. The equipment, FAAN said was already being shipped into the country and assured that it would arrive Nigeria soon. This is as Arik Air, said it has lost about $3.6m to bird strike menace between 2013 and 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Capt. Muktar Muye, Director, Airport Operation, FAAN, disclosed on Wednesday in Lagos in his keynote address at the one day symposium on Reduction on Wildlife Strike Hazard at Nigerian Airports. Muye did not however, mention the cost of the equipment and the number that would be acquired. But, statistics released by Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) recently, indicated that Nigerian airlines lost about N6bn to bird strike menace annually in the country. Despite this cry of loss of huge amount of money, not much has changed in wildlife hazard in the past three years. Though, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in one of its reports said that only 3.6 per cent incidents were as a result of bird strike incidents, but stakeholders said there may be more of such incidences as most occurrences were not recorded. Besides, Muye explained that in the coming years, it is projected that there would be more airlines, while increase would also be recorded in the numbers of wildlife. He, however, sought the cooperation of aviation stakeholders and public to fight the challenge in the sector. He added: ‘’Airline operations are complex and operating cost is high. Time is one of the most valuable commodities and schedules are finely tuned to ensure on time performance. Striving to achieve this, flight crews are constantly weighing safety and economies.’’ Capt. Jide Bakare, Safety Manager, Arik Air in his presentation lamented that the airline had lost about $3.6m in six years to bird strikes at several airports in the country. According to him, in 2019 alone, the airline lost $430,000 to damage of its aircraft due to bird strike, adding that it also lost $466,000 to two bird strike incidents at Enugu Airport. Bakare emphasised that the airline has had 11 bird strike incidents in recent time, stressing that 95 per cent of bird strikes in aircraft occur in at below 3000ft. Earlier, in his opening remarks, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director of, FAAN, said that the number of bird strikes that occur in the global aviation industry was higher than the 3.6 per cent delivered by ICAO.