ABUJA – Dr. Osagie Ehanire, the Minister of Health, has said 41 lives were already lost to Lassa fever with 258 confirmed cases established so far. This is even as he acknowledged that the fatality rate of the fever has greatly reduced compared to 2019. He made the disclosure recently at a press conference, noting that “these deaths were reported in 19 states with the majority of the cases in Ebonyi, Edo and Ondo. According to him, “despite the increase in numbers of confirmed cases, the overall fatality rate for 2020 is just 15 percent compared to the same period in 2019 which was 20 percent. A few years ago, the fatality rate was over 20 percent.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He further stated that while efforts were geared toward achieving single digit case fatality rate, government would continue to support response activities like surveillance and contact tracking in the affected states through the development of rapid response teams for improved case management. The minister added that the response team has been deployed to five states namely Ebonyi, Enugu, Kano, Borno and Ondo. He further stated: “As part of our response last week, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) activated National Emergency Operations Centre; it is a technical working group for Lassa fever and they have the mandate to ensure well-coordinated response case management and control of Lassa fever.” Ehanire enjoined health workers to maintain high index of suspicion and practice universal precaution to protect themselves by using gloves, laboratory coats and aprons. He also urged Nigerians to maintain personal, environmental and food hygiene and store their food properly to avoid invasion by rodents and avoid long self-medications. Also, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, the director general of NCDC, said the agency has activated a National Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) on January 24, 2020, to coordinate Lassa fever response activities. This, according to him, was in response to the increasing number of Lassa fever cases across the states in the country. “As at January 24, 2020, 195 confirmed cases and 29 deaths had been reported in 11 states.” “Of the confirmed cases, 89 percent are from Ondo, Edo and Ebonyi states. The increase in the number of cases at this time of the year is not unusual due to ecological factors.”