 The Presidency in a swift reaction has on Sunday dismissed the Northern Elders Forum, (NEF) saying it was a one-man group run by Professor Ango Abdullahi who should not be taken seriously. The Presidency’s reaction is in respect to a statement issued by the Northern Elders Forum on the state of insecurity in the country among other things. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In the statement, NEF stated that the North would support only candidates with genuine commitment to deal with its problems and political will to meet its aspirations in the 2023 general election. On national security, it called for the injection of a higher level of competence, integrity, and accountability in the manner Nigerian security agencies deal with security challenges. But reacting to NEF’s declaration, the Presidency in a statement issued by President Muhammadu Buhari’s media aide, Mr. Femi Adesina, said the group should not be taken seriously. According to the Presidency, NEF was a “quasi-organization that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops.” The statement reads in full: NORTHERN ELDERS FORUM: GENERAL WITHOUT TROOPS Professor Ango Abdullahi on Sunday signed a long-winding statement on many issues relating to the North, and purportedly to the country. The former vice-chancellor signed the statement under the banner of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF). Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organization that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Muhammadu Buhari and its preference for another candidate. They all got beaten together. NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything.