ABUJA – The Director General of the Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Mr. Joseph Ari, at the weekend, said skills acquisition remains the most viable and sustainable solution to combating the increasing unemployment and poverty in the country. Ari, who stated this on the occasion of the combined convocation of graduates of the National Innovative Diploma and the National Vocational Certificate of the ITF Model Skills Training Centre (MSTC), Abuja,  said unemployment situation in the country has defied various initiatives  used by government and non-governmental organisations to fight it. He announced the graduation of 316 persons from ITF Model Skills Training Centre (MSTC), adding that the programme was designed as part of efforts to generate sustainable solutions to rising unemployment and poverty as well as supply the manpower needs of the economy in line with the mandate of ITF. He pointed out that the perception by many Nigerians that hands-on skills are a preserve of the illiterates and never-do-well in the society must change. According to him, “World over, skills acquisition has become the currency of the 21st century that lubricates the wheels of development of any nation’s economy. “The objective of the Centre is to ensure that many Nigerians are equipped with the skills for employability and entrepreneurship to avert attendant effects of poverty and unemployment that have manifested themselves in form of rising criminality, including kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, and many other anti-social behaviour. Also speaking, Hajiya Saratu Aliyu, the President of Nigerian Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), said there are over 23million Nigerians who are currently unemployed, quoting statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics. Aliyu noted that human development was critical to economic growth of the country, adding that all hands must be deck to provide skilled manpower for national development. In his remarks, Dr. Timothy Olawale, Director General of Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) noted that many industries have folded up due to dearth of skilled technical manpower. He contended that Nigeria’s unemployment situation is an emergency one, adding that both the government and organised private sector must as a matter of urgency work assiduously in addressing unemployment in the country.