LAGOS – Young entrepreneurs in Nigeria have been urged to take advantage of new business opportunities in a budding Canadian city, Brampton, Ontario, Canada, courtesy of a leading commercial real estate firm in Nigeria, Pertinence Group. Mayor of Brampton, His Worship, Mr. Patrick Brown, and councilor of the fastest growing city with youth population in Canada, Mrs. Charmaine Williams, revealed numerous business opportunities in Canada during an interactive session with selected 300 Nigerian entrepreneurs yesterday in Lagos. The duo, who promised to ensure enabling environment for willing Nigerian entrepreneurs, said there were huge opportunities in cyber security sector, food and beverages industry, vibes and manufacturing sectors in their city. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Noting that, Nigeria has a lot of potential business men and women, the Mayor urged Nigerians to tap into several business openings in Brampton, adding that, with determination and doggedness, Nigerian youths can occupy their space and turn things around for the country and the continent, Africa. “Brampton wants to be part of the Nigerian success story. We hope to do business with Nigeria, as there are opportunities for Nigeria to be greater than imagined.” Charging her audience, Williams, who is the first black woman to occupy the seat of councilor in Brampton, said there were opportunities in education and other key sectors of the economy. Williams, who hinted that, they were in Nigeria to change the narrative, urged her audience never to allow anybody to discourage them, adding that, once you have a vision and dream, follow it with passion. Mr. Sunday Olorunsheyi, co-founder of the hosting firm, Pertinence, said, he had held series of engagements with the Mayor of Brampton and seen that the city has many business opportunities for young and daring entrepreneurs, hence, his firm decided to organize the interaction. “Just a month ago, I was in Canada and had meetings with his team, where we explored the various opportunities which The City of Brampton can facilitate for Nigerian Youths and Entrepreneurs, and I can tell you, they are many.” Olorunsheyi added: “At Pertinence Group, we embody entrepreneurship through and through. “We continue to advocate that entrepreneurship, entrepreneurs and those they inspire define the future of Nigeria’s transformation and you share this too and that is why Pertinence Group decided to support young Nigerian Entrepreneurs by creating this platform just for them.” He said that, Nigeria is a land of opportunities, but to fully maximize these opportunities, younger entrepreneurs needed some help.