Prof. Abdulmumini Oba a lecturer at the University of Ilorin has called for the es­tablishment of Sharia Courts of Appeal in the South West to cater for the Muslim faith­ful. Oba, who
lecture at the De­partment of Jurisprudence and International Law of the
university made the call in a paper presented at the 189th Inaugural Lecture of
the university titled: “Live and let live; rethinking the legal responses to
religious, ethnic and legal pluralism”. He explained
that the Sha­ria Courts should be set up in states in South West with sizeable
Muslim population. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Oba said
that Sharia Courts of Appeal and High Courts should have jurisdic­tion in all
Islamic Law mat­ters in states where Sharia Court of Appeal exist. He
observed that there was a lacuna in administra­tion of Islamic laws in Nige­ria,
adding that the colonial authorities did not make efforts to integrate both Cus­tomary
and Islamic laws into Nigerian legal system. “There
are no provisions for administration of Islamic estates in our statutes. “This
has forced many un­willing Muslims to approach High Courts for letters of ad­ministration
even in states that have Sharia Courts of Appeal. “Similarly,
the absence of registry for Islamic marriag­es has forced some Muslim couples
to contract statutory marriages. “This is
so that they can get marriage certificates re­quired by some embassies that
would not accept affida­vits of marriages that are the only legal evidence
available for persons who marry under Islamic law,” he said. Oba
stated that Christians and people of other faith had nothing to fear about
Islamic laws. The don
said that the ju­risdiction of Islamic courts did not extend to unwilling
Christians. He also
disclosed that Christian lawyers appeared in Islamic law cases before Islamic
Courts and English courts, adding that Christian Judges and Justices also adju­dicate
on Islamic Law cases. The law
expert explained that Islamic laws recognised the judicial and cultural au­tonomy
of non-Muslims in matters of their own person­al issues. Oba
called for unity, toler­ance, understanding among Nigerians and warned against
politicising matters affecting national cohesion. Meanwhile,
Prof. Abdul­rafi Omotosho of Depart­ment of Islamic Law, of the same University
of Ilorin (Unilorin), has asserted that Islamic Law forbid forcible marriage
and kidnapping. Omotosho made the as­sertion in
his paper presen­tation at the 191st Inaugural Lecture of Unilorin titled: “She
has a lion share under the Islamic law”. He added that, “forbidden
according to the laws are sale of women, automatic inheri­tance of widows and
any oth­er methods outside of what is prescribed”. Omotosho, who teaches in the
Faculty of Law of the in­stitution, stated that all these were parts of the
efforts to free women from the oppres­sion imposed upon them by those who were
supposed to be their partners in life. He observed that there was
misconception about the rights of women in Islam, adding that this had led to
endless debate, particularly in modern times. Omotosho said that, his­torically,
women had been subjugated at different peri­ods, when they were treated like
properties, with no rights and they suffered heinous treatment. He traced the histor­ical
context of pre-Is­lmaic Arabia, where women had no rights to ownership of
property, while the girl-child gets buried alive. “Before the advent of Prophet
Muhammad (PBUH), the Arabs ab­horred having female children, they either killed
them or buried them alive out of fear of poverty and the evils they believed
were asso­ciated with women. “As they were around the
Prophet Muham­mad when the Qur’an was revealed, Allah did not waste time in
drawing their attention to the ugliness of what they were doing, ” Omo­tosho
said. He stated that Islamic law had
also forbidden all beliefs and practices that degrad­ed women and advocated
equality of women and men through enactment of rules and regulations. He urged the Federal Government
and the Nige­rian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) to educate the
general public on the rights of women in the society. He recommended that a special
body be set up to pro­mote and defend the rights of women and empower them, as
a first step alternative dispute resolution for wom­en who could not afford the
cost of litigation in the Sha­riah court. “Muslim women and or­ganisations should take pro­active
actions to ensure that they are familiar with their rights. It is only when one
knows one’s right, one can de­mand for it,” Omotosho said