AKURE – There is palpable fear among members of the State Executive Committee of All Progressives Congress ( APC), Ondo State chapter as the leaders of the party in the state resolved to implement the recommendations of the July, 2019 meeting to settle the internal crisis of the party. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Olusegun Osoba, Chief Bisi Akande and Governor Kayode Fayemi stormed the Heritage Hotel at Ijapo Estate, Akure, the state capital, to arrest the seemingly irreconcilable crisis between Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and virtually all other bigwigs of the party in the state. The crisis, which dated back to the outcome of the party’s governorship primary in 2016, got worse during the 2019 general elections. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network National Secretariat of the party had insisted that all members of the National Assembly must be given the return ticket, a decision which ran foul of the intention of the governor who had wanted to replace Senator Ajayi Borofice, Northern Senatorial District, with his favourite, Dr. Tunji Abayomi. The imposition by the national Secretariat was said to have prompted the governor to allegedly sponsor Dr. Abayomi on the platform of Action Alliance (AA) in protest of the decision. His action was said to have been responsible for the loss of Presidential election in the state. Unfortunately for the governor, his favorite candidates both in APC and AA didn’t sail through the election. This led to the decision of the National Secretariat of the party to suspend the governor for anti-party activities, until it was lifted in December last year. Among the recommendations of the Tinubu-led reconciliation team was that the current state exco of the party led by Engineer Ade Adetimehin, to the Ward level should be dissolved and a new one be constituted. Akeredolu was also asked to expand his government and extend it to anybody that cares to work with him among the warring leaders. A state advisory committee was remommended to be constituted where the decision about the party will be taken and collective leadership should be created. But the governor has been playing hide and seek on the recommendations as he didn’t call any meeting where the issue of implementation could be discussed. Now that the governorship election is drawing nearer in the state and the governor is not having the ears of more than 80 percent of chieftains of the party. Sources revealed that when Akeredolu went to a meeting between South West governors and Tinubu in Lagos, he was asked about how far he had gone in resolving the internal crisis of the party in his state. His report made the leadership of the party order him to go and resolve the crisis immediately before the election. Through the instance of the party’s former National Vice Chairman, South West, Pius Akinyelure, a meeting was hurriedly organised on Saturday at Heritage Hotel, Ijapo Estate, Akure. The meeting was attended by all the aggrieved chieftains of the party, except Senator Ajayi Borofice, who sent a representative, who was not allowed to attend the meeting. Ife Oyedele was not invited on the grounds that he’s not a member of the caucus of the party. The chieftains of the party, who attended the February 1, 2020 meeting include the governor, Ifedayo Abegunde(Secretary to the State Government), Bayo Ademodi(Commissioner for Integration,)), Olusola Oke, Erastus Akeju, Isaac Kekemeke, Ali Olanusi, Bode Sunmonu, Sola Iji, Segun Abraham, among others. Shortly after the meeting, a report had it that all leaders of the party in the state had endorsed Akeredolu for the second term in office. But on Monday, a statement signed by Rotimi Ogunleye, a media aide of Chief Olusola Oke, revealed that the media report that stated on Sunday that Governor Akeredolu has been endorsed by all leaders of the party was a ruse. Oke revealed that “in that meeting, Akeredolu complained that there was no meeting of the party across the state and that he wants the party to come alive. “Members of the meeting made their grievances known that since he agreed to constitute an advisory committee last year, he was just doing it now and said everyone is angry that the governor just sat down “We said that the party which binds us together must be run collectively so that all leaders and members must have sense of belonging in order to rescusitate the party again. “We said the way to start this is to dissolve all Exco of the party from ward to the state because they are constituted by the governor’s team alone. “The governor said there was no problem about it if we will agree to let the national secretariat of our party be aware of the decision. He then agreed that we are going to constitute a reconciliation committee that all aggrieved members in the meeting and outside the meeting that are aggrieved should be included. “The aggrieved members are to submit a memorandum which will be used to generate solutions to crisis of the leadership in our party and that will now form the working document that we are going to use to address the crisis in the state while the document will now be sent to the National leadership of the party.” In the meeting, Chief Oke was chosen as the chairman of that committee, Kekemeke was the Secretary. They were supposed to report back to the committee. Oke, however, disclosed that the membership of the committee has nothing to do with next governorship election, and they never discussed the issue of governorship, or deputy governorship but they talked about the party and the party alone. He said: “The issue of endorsement never cropped up at the meeting. Nobody endorsed the governor and no one asked for deputy governorship slot We did not endorse anybody.” In his maiden statement as the Secretary of Advisory Committee, Kekemeke said: “Following months of consultation, a thirty- one member Advisory Council made up of the Governor, the Deputy Governor, some selected leaders, present and past senators, a representative of the House of representatives, the Speaker of the House of Assembly and at least one representative of each of the eighteen local governments of the state was inaugurated on Saturday , February 1, 2020. “The council unanimously affirmed Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu SAN, the Governor of the state as the leader of the party in the state and appointed Chief Pius Olu Akinyelure and Hon. D. Isaacs Kekemeke as Chairman and Secretary of the council respectively. “The council noted the appeal of Governor Akeredolu to members present to put the past behind them and urged all to work for the unity of the party . “The Governor’s declaration that the council was not a forum for deciding the candidacy of the party for the 2020 governorship election in the state and the assurance that he would run a more inclusive government were commended. “The council after an extensive deliberation on the present structures of the party in the state constituted an adhoc committee to consult stakeholders and party faithful across the state and come up with recommendations for its consideration within the shortest possible time. The members of the Committee are: Chief Olusola Oke, Chairman, Chief Bode Sumonu, Member, RT Hon Bamidele Oloyelogun, Member, Mr Wale Akinterinwa, Member and Mr Jacob Oredola, Member.” Some of the intrigues playing out in the new move are suspicious readiness of Akeredolu to sacrifice the state party chairman, Ade Adetimehin and his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, whose position some members of the party have said would be ceded to Kekemeke as running mate of Akeredolu. Some chieftains of the party, who are eyeing the party’s governorship ticket, have vowed not to enter into any agreement to produce Akeredolu as a consensus standard-bearer of the party. However, with the current moves, APC may soon settle all its internal crisis as it began to implement the recommendations of its South West leaders handed down in July last year.