The Federal Government has emphasised that gender issues at workplace must be positively addressed to enhance National Development. Mr. William Nwankwo Alo, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment, who made the declaration during a Capacity Building Workshop on Gender Mainstreaming in workplace organised by the Inspectorate Department of the Ministry, in Abuja noted that in the current environment of rapid changes, organisation must adapt quickly enough to maintain relevance. Alo, who was represented by his Technical Adviser, Mr. Emmanuel Igbinosun, stated that the capacity building workshop was geared towards sharpening the skills, competence, and access to information, widen the scope of knowledge of the participants in order to improve performance for effective service delivery at the workplace as stipulated by the Labour Act. According to him Gender Mainstreaming in workplace was a strategy applied to ensure that women as well as men concerns and experiences formed the integral dimension of workplace policies and programmes. He added that: “The world is continually evolving at a rapid pace and the change has brought with it new complexities that constantly reshape society and redefine every aspect of human endeavors and existence, knowing that organisations are among the most significant structures through which society function.” He maintained that with Gender Mainstreaming, “we ensure no one is left behind in policies design and implementation, bearing in mind that it should form the bedrock of social dialogue.” He urged participants to make the best use of the opportunity by interacting and participating actively in all the session. Earlier in a welcome address,  Mr. Ajuwun Daudu, the Ag. Director Inspectorate Department, said one of the objectives of the capacity building, amongst others was to build the requisite skills of labour officers and inspector to effectively deliver on the mandate of the ministry on gender issues in workplaces and enforcement of labour standards.