A 30-year-old housewife, Shukurat Olufowobi, said to be a resident of Oshodi oke area of Ogijo area of Ogun State has been arrested by men of the state Police Command for allegedly beating his five-year-old stepson, Azeem Olufowobi, to death. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Abimbola Oyeyemi, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO),  Ogun State Police Command, disclosed to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Sunday that the suspect was arrested by  12:30 p.m. on Sunday following information received from members of the public to the police at Ogijo Division that the deceased boy was hit with an object on the head. It was gathered that the victim got a deep injury on his skull which eventually led to his death. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Oyeyemi further said information further revealed that the woman and her husband hurriedly took the corpse of the victim to Ajah in Lagos State where he was secretly buried. According to Oyeyemi, “Upon getting the information, the DPO Ogijo Division, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Suleman Baba Muhammed, quickly mobilised his detectives to the scene where the couple who had started packing their belongings from the area were promptly arrested. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the woman had been maltreating the victim whose mother had separated from the father due to irreconcilable differences. “On the fateful day, the boy was hit on the head with a heavy object which caused him a broken skull resulting to his eventual death. “The nurse who gave the victim first aid treatment and informed the couple of her observation was pleaded with by the woman and her friend to lie about the cause of the victim’s death but she refused telling them that it is against the ethics of her profession. “The couple, Ayuba Olufowobi and Shukurat Olufowobi, are currently undergoing interrogation at Ogijo Divisional headquarters and helping the police in their investigation,” Oyeyemi narrated. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution.