The recent clash between protesting commercial motorcycle and tricycle (popularly known as Okada and Keke) operators and policemen in Lagos which report­edly led to the loss of three lives is most unfortunate and disheart­ening given that the matter could have been handled more peaceful­ly and the fatalities avoided. What is even more saddening is that the people who died during the incident might even be innocent people whose only offence might just be that they happened to be at the scene of the fracas at that particular time. Reports say the protest which took place at the Ijora Badia area of Apapa in Lagos was at some point hijacked by street urchins popular­ly called “Area Boys.” Police spokes­person, Bala Elkana, described the protesters as “hoodlums” who were “suspected to be Okada riders and thugs” who blocked “some major roads around Ijora 7-Up, Ijora Under Bridge, Sifa Junction and Gaskiya Area, all within the Ijora Badia Division,” causing “major obstructions on the roads, burning tyres, looting and stealing from unsuspecting road users.” Although, there is no law that stipulates that protesters should obtain police permit before em­barking on protests, it is situations like this, where protesters can be infiltrated by violent elements and turn otherwise a peaceful march into a bloody one that makes it wise that prospective protesters should seek police protection. The Police Command should also not abuse such courtesies by capitalis­ing on the opportunity to frustrate planned protest marches. In every civilised society, the citizens have the right to express their grievances against state policies in a peaceful and decent manner. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network On Saturday, February 1, 2020, the Lagos State Government com­menced the enforcement of its Re­form Traffic Law of 2018, in which commercial motorcycle and tricycle operations were banned in six Local Government Areas (LGAs), nine Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), 10 major highways and 40 bridges and flyovers in Lagos. Given that the areas affected by the restriction order were places where the activities of Keke and Okada play pivotal roles in the movement of the people, the reactions were al­most spontaneous and reflective of the people’s deep feelings because of the sudden deprivation and the anticipated difficulties it will inject into the polity. The aggrieved are the operators of these means of transport who had suddenly lost their sources of livelihood and even the citizens to whom the new policy will visit with severe difficulties. We can appreciate the reasons volunteered by the Lagos State Government for adopting these measures. There have been reports that commercial motorcycle and tricycles have often been deployed by villainous characters to per­petrate all kinds of crimes. They are regularly used as gate-away vehicles by robbers, kidnappers and rapists because of their ability to ply narrow, deserted pathways. They have equally been responsible for several accidents which have maimed and even killed several citizens. In organised and well-gov­erned societies, such means of transportation ought to belong to a very distant past. But, sadly, these expediencies are gap-filling solutions that emerged as a result of the inability of the various governments to respond to the transportation needs of a rap­idly growing population in a place like Lagos. It is equally very dis­heartening that a highly commend­able and anticipated metroline project which was being construct­ed by a foresighted government of Lateef Jakande in 1985 to address the emerging transportation com­plications in Lagos state was brash­ly and without any convincing reasons cancelled by the Federal Government. Till now, no remorse has been shown for that clearly thoughtless action or attempts made to revive it, hence Lagos is left to continue grappling with complex transportation issues occasioned by its growing population. Also, the Lagos State Govern­ment should have sought to win the sympathy of the populace by rolling out some alternatives before unfolding such a policy that was bound to subject the Lagos resi­dents to avoidable stresses. With the withdrawal of the commercial tri­cycles and motorcycles, movements in the affected areas have become such an excruciating experience, with people trekking very long dis­tances to accomplish very essential tasks. There is a looming possibility that the demobilised Okada and Keke operators will organise more protests and might certainly gain the sympathy of the populace who are bearing the brunt of the ban. We urge that every step must be taken to avoid a repeat of the kind of bloody clashes that claimed some lives in Ijora Badia and that safety nets be evolved to cushion the excruciating effects of the new policy. The police also must learn to exercise reasonable restraint in the face of protests by the citizenry and refrain from using live bullets to disperse protesters. It is to be hoped that government would closely monitor the new policy and its implementation and see the areas that could be adjust­ed to limit the attendant stress in order to gain more acceptability for it. Governance, no matter how well-meaning, can only flourish in a peaceful environment.