Lagos – It seems the last has not been heard on the controversy that trails the NECO result of the Anambra South Senatorial seat between incumbent Senator Ifeanyi Ubah of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) as his challenger, Dr. Obinna Uzoh of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) insists the certificate is forged. The PDP Candidate, Uzor is insisting that the NECO school certificate tendered by Ubah to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was forged even though the Examination Council had affirmed the authenticity of the politician’s certificate after he had been previously sacked by a Federal High Court in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja. It would be recalled that Dr. Obinna Uzoh had filed the pre-election suit challenging the nomination of Ifeanyi Ubah (1st defendant), by his party, YPP (2nd defendant), for the Anambra Senatorial District Election, alleging that Ubah presented a forged National Examination Council (NECO) certificate to INEC. Justice Bello Kawu of the High court sitting in Kubwa area of the Federal Capital Territory, in his judgment, nullified Ubah’s election as the senator representing Anambra South, for allegedly using a forged NECO certificate to contest the senatorial election that held in the state on February 23, 2019. The court had ordered INEC to withdraw the certificate of return issued to Ubah and issues a fresh certificate of return to the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP Obinna Uzoh who came second in the election as the senator-elect of the district. The lawmaker, however, approached the court to set aside the judgment on grounds that he was neither given fair hearing nor served with the court process and hearing notice in the suit before the court delivered the judgment against him. Following his application for a stay of execution, Justice Kawu, on December 4, restrained the Senate president from swearing-in Uzoh, pending the hearing and determination of the motion challenging the verdict. He also ordered all the parties, including the INEC to maintain the status quo until it decides the merit in Ubah’s contention. While the judge on Friday, January 17 held that Ubah’s application to vacate its judgment lacked merit and accordingly dismissed it. However, in a sudden twist, NECO wrote to the YPP leadership claiming that the NECO certificate was genuine and issued to Ifeanyi Ubah in 2003. According to Obinna Uzoh, looking at the copies of the two certificates which are now in the public domain, the NECO certificate which Ifeanyi Ubah had submitted to INEC and the one NECO has validated shows that the certificates are different. Also the serial numbers are different from the initial certificate Ifeanyi Ubah submitted to INEC which has serial no 303865920 while the NECO certified copy is 303565920. The certificates also have different signatures, logos and even font. A comparison of these two documents shows differences in signatures, stamp, logo, typeset font and so on. If we take the NECO certificate released by the examination body as Ifeanyi Ubah’s certificate, then the initial one he submitted to INEC was indeed forged as declared by the Abuja High Court. Meanwhile, in his response Ubah has said his accuser should certify it and go to court and sue NECO.