OWERRI – Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma, on Thursday, warned that his administration would no longer tolerate protests designed and organize to destabilise government activities and disrupt the peace of the state. Governor Uzodinma, who spoke during a solidarity rally organised by the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities (JONAPWD) in the state warned that the State Government would no longer fold its arms and watch groups under any guise to disturb the peace of the state. “Government will do all within the ambits of the law to maintain peace and order. Those who are engaging in these incessant protests must stop forthwith. I took an oath to maintain peace and protect the lives and property of the citizens, I will not fail to deal with any group causing a breach of the peace in the state”, the Governor said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Governor reassured the people of the state that his administration was for peace and service and ready to provide equal opportunities for the overall development of the state and her citizens regardless of cadre and status, saying the government would not condone any act of marginalisation or unruly attitude. To the persons living with disabilities, Governor Uzodinma assured: “There will be no marginalisation against you. Whatever anybody can do I’m sure you can do it, you’ll be given equal opportunities; so I implore you to go on and be happy because this is your government.” In a Communiqué, the State NURTW Chairman, Comrade Izuchukwu Okebaram said: “Senator Uzodinma’s victory at the apex Court in the land is an act of God and a bold step by the judiciary towards the restoration of justice; as well as a re-enactment of the supremacy of Nigerian constitution.” Pledging the unalloyed support and loyalty of the union to the Governor, the NURTW chairman enjoined his members to shun all forms of deceitful incitement by unscrupulous politicians intended to lure them into offering themselves as willing tools to cause a breach of the peace. Comrade Okebaram appreciated Governor Uzodinma’s prompt intervention in resolving the crisis in the union which he ascribed to “the unconstitutional and illegal removal of a validly elected State executive by the last administration.” Speaking for the Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities, its State Chairman, Hon. Bright Ikechukwu Uzoma expressed support for Governor Uzodinma and called on detractors to sheath their swords and join the movement to take Imo to its next destination. He pleaded with the Governor to address the issue of marginalisation being faced by persons living with disabilities in the state.