Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo, a lawyer, politician and founder, Nation’s Leadership Institute, is a principal player in the Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak administration in Kwara State, who coined the ‘Otoge’ political slogan that torpedoed the Saraki dynasty in the state. He spoke to NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE on the recent deregistering of political parties, his voluntarily resignation as Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman and defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC), among other issues. Excerpts: Recently, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) delisted 74 political parties. What is your take on this development? You see, I am not surprised that many political parties have been delisted. Political parties shouldn’t be a platform for ventilating ambitions alone. They should not be organisations formed just because you don’t want to belong to the existing ones. These ideas led to multiplication of parties. In the First Republic in this country, there were many political parties. It looked as if it was not regulated. We had small parties and big ones. That is how it should be everywhere. In the First Republic, we used to hear of NPC, Action Group, NCNC. But, underneath those, we had the Middle Belt party; we had NEPU of Aminu Kano and several others. But, there were three dominant political parties then, NPC, Action Group and NCNC. When those parties wanted to fight national elections in those days, there would be coalitions and alliances. During the Second Republic, we had three dominant parties also. But, that did not disallow those who wanted to form their parties from doing so. But then, the Army that handed over power to the civilians in those days in 1979, regulated registration. They introduced regulation of political parties. We had UPN, NPP and NPN, we had GRP. These were dominant parties. But there were two domineering parties. These were NPN and UPN. But, there were also alliances and coalitions. However, when General Ibrahim Babangida came in, he over regulated. He made sure that there were only two political parties; SDP and NRC. But, political parties should be allowed to grow, you don’t just decree them into existence. The idea of legislating two political parties in the country was wrong. In that case, you forced together strange bed fellows. When we came to the Third Republic, initially, AD, PDP, APP were formed. But, Gani Fawwhinmi went to court when others were not registered by INEC. The Supreme Court then opened the space. So today, you can open a new party when you meet certain conditions, even when you don’t have any member. I don’t believe that they enforced national spread any longer. However, I think that what INEC has done by deregistering the 74 political parties is to now study the impact of those that have been there for a long time. Some have been there for 10 years without a councillorship seat in any part of the country. Personally, I don’t see anything wrong with such action. Don’t you think that this action could be a judicial backlash? There will be litigations. I know there will be. Look at the old struggles of Gani Fawehinmi.  The late lawyer and activist was the founder of the National Conscience Party (NCP). His party was not registered and he went to court. I am sure if he is around now, he will still go to court if his party is among the once deregistered. So, there will be resistance in form of litigations. But, it is left for the judiciary to make pronouncements. But, it doesn’t mean that you can’t form another party tomorrow. You have deregistered some, that doesn’t preclude you from not coming up tomorrow. But, the rule is that when you come and you can’t make impact, you go. To that extent, no problem. But, I was thinking that parties should be allowed to exist, if they don’t make the required impact, they are deregistered. But, the registration of a political party, to me is unnecessary. Some say that statutory grants made to parties by INEC could be part of the reason why there multiplicity of parties. What do you think? Do they still give such grants? I doubt it. But, you could be right. Statutory funds given to political parties could be reasons why people register parties. But, I am not sure the funds are still given. If at all, it must be at the top level of the party. Mortality of political parties in Nigeria is so high. Why is this so? Parties are not built on any known principle or ideology in Nigeria. When you go to Britain, Labour is known to be a social democratic platform; you can say that they are more progressive than the Conservative Party in Britain. In Britain, we have the Labour and the Conservative parties. When you go to the U.S, the most visible parties are the Democrats and Republicans. Before you can join any of the two, you look at what they represent. Some of them have dosages of social democratic inclinations, maybe their belief in the economy being either in the hands of a few or the government. Those are the ideological inclinations of these political parties. In Nigeria, frankly speaking, there are no such things here. I am a member of APC today, I was once a member of PDP. Ideologically, I don’t see any difference in both parties. There is no difference and nobody should be deceived. I hear when some people say this one is Progressive and some are Conservative. No. If it is a question of ideology, why would somebody be PDP in the morning and the evening he is APC? I don’t see any difference. In 2018, I was a vibrant member of PDP, in fact, the state chairman of the party. When I went to Abuja and they said that Dr. Bukola Saraki would be coming to the party and will take up the structure of the party, I said ‘no, no!’ My ideology is that I don’t want to cohabit with Saraki. It has nothing to do with economy. I just don’t want to be in the same vehicle with this man. I went to Abuja as a party chairman of PDP for this state, I came back without being party chairman. (Cuts In): Just because you don’t want to be in the same party with Saraki? Yes. All Because I didn’t want to be in the same political vehicle with Saraki. (Cuts In): What is ideological in that? Nothing, except the expediency of my state. Maybe, if it were to be other states I wouldn’t have changed camp. So, it is just like that; no ideology, no principle. The bulk of people in APC today were once in PDP. That is why we have unstable political parties. But, I believe that as we grow, there will be development. Adams Oshiomole, the party national chairman, is at loggerheads with his state governor, Godwin Obaseki. What is your take on this? I am not deep in the issues. What I know is this: We always have overbearing governors in Nigeria. I believe that governors are to govern their states to the extent of their abilities. I believe they should be left to do so because ultimately they owe the people accountability. But, I don’t believe that the governor should put the party in his pocket. Face governance. The party is a vehicle through which you rode into office. Don’t let it be destroyed. I think the problem is, when somebody is made governor, on the day of his inauguration, he is already seeing himself contesting the next election. And only the party can make him feature. And in that case, he may want to have the whole structure in his pocket. This may be one of the things causing the crisis in Edo APC. The second thing is the disposition of godfathers. If somebody is there, the tendencies among leaders is to say, we put him there. Why will he not obey us? There should not be overbearing leaders who will believe that the governor must be run by him from outside. While launching the Nations Leadership Institute (NLI), recently, as its founder, you made a sweeping allegations against Nigerian and African leaders, saying that the only things they bequeathed to upcoming politicians are corruption and tribalism. Could you elaborate on this? Personally, I have studied the political history of this country. If you say that the statement is a bit sweeping, that may just be your personal opinion. I wasn’t saying that all past leaders were corrupt. But, to the extent that we are lowly graded by reputable bodies like Transparency International, it shows that what is being left for the future is simply corruption. In facets of our social lives, we can see this evidence of corruption. Certainly, Nigeria cannot be rated as one of the most corruption-free states in the world. Our score has always been that we have always been far behind. It is that kind of rating that led me to conclude that what we have in the country now is corruption. Even when you see one of the objectives of the current government is to fight corruption and to the extent that you can see past leaders being jailed, then, you can say that many are corrupt. It also depends on the number of those caught and jailed. But essentially, when you look at our leaders during this period of civilian administration, you can see that many leaders cannot escape charges of corruption. That is why I concluded that corruption is rife. It is endemic in our system. By NLI’s mandate, that is training for leadership, isn’t it a bit alien to recent political system? How do you hope to sustain it? Leadership training and the creation of the institute has been a passion that I have developed over time. It is because we have leadership deficiency in Nigeria, even by extension, the whole of Africa. This is a thing that is needed and necessary and indeed, I don’t think we have many of this type of institute around. This is because we are not exposed to training our leaders before we give them responsibility in Nigeria. You know, when people are not properly skilled in the art of leadership, that is why we experience the kind of backwardness we have in Nigeria. Take for example issues like integrity. Many people do not even know what it means for a leader to have integrity in this country. That is why in most cases, people believe that you go into political office with just one aim: to plunder the resources of the country. In developed countries, it is for rendering service. In those places, you won’t see people who are in service and earn big salaries and perquisite of offices as we have in Nigeria. Leadership here, as we have in the political arena, is seen as the royal way to enrichment. No, that is not the meaning of leadership. Rather, it is taking up front position and dictating to others how things should be done. Those are things we don’t have in this country. Now, why did I therefore go for institute of this nature? Yes, some people will leave office and set up big schools, even universities, colleges of education. But, that is not my own area of concern. The more universities we have may be a multiplication of the crisis that we battle with in this country. More inefficiency; multiplication of more half baked people. I therefore see a vacuum that must be filled and it must be filled by an institute that is after-school-school. This is a school that you go to after acquiring education somewhere. That is the meaning of this institute. This is not a place where you start to know things.