ABEOKUTA – Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State was sworn in, just like many other colleagues of his, on May 29, 2019, as the fifth executive governor of the Gateway State with a promise to hit the ground running. But, it took the governor almost seven months to form his cabinet, within which period the governor ran the business of government with few aides. Many people had blamed the delay in the formation of cabinet members on the diverse forces that brought the governor into power and the need to assert his authority over the various interests and groups, while many blamed it on the uncertainty over tribunal cases that the governor passed through. At different times, Abiodun was quoted to have said that he was never in a hurry or under any pressure to constitute the cabinet, but was taking his time to have the best hands that any governor could put together in the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The governor had once said: “It is not about how quick, but having the right peg in the right hole. I am not under any pressure by anybody to form the cabinet; nobody has put any pressure on me. I am the one putting pressure on myself to get the right people. We are carefully looking for people and the process will be completed in few weeks. We are not short of stars in Ogun, but you have to find them.” On December 12, 2019, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon Olakunle Oluomo, read out a letter from the governor containing names of the commissioners-nominee to the admiration of the people of the state, at least the wait would be over. The list was without some familiar faces in the political arena of the state with few technocrats, but with intimidating resume. The Assembly, with a speed of light, screened and certified the nominees worthy of the nomination. What many people saw as a New Year gift, the commissioners-designate were on January 10, sworn in at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta, with funfair while the governor announced the portfolios of the new Commissioners and Special Advisers which the Assembly has earlier approved. One woman was missing in the show, Professor (or Dr) Sidikat Osho who was, in absentia, designated to man education ministry. Governor Abiodun, with his body language since been sworn in as governor, did not joke with the education in Ogun State, because it is one of the enablers, the governor had said at different fora. Although, there was no explanation as to why Osho was not available to take oath of office, but the reason would soon be made public. Few hours after the inauguration, a dismissal letter started flying around carrying the name of the new commissioner designate. She was claimed to have been dismissed from the state-owned Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye. Sidi Osho’s Dismissal According to the dismissal letter, a copy of which was obtained by Sunday INDEPENDENT, Osho was dismissed in 2016 by the Governing Council of OOU, over alleged gross misconduct. The letter dated  April 18, 2016 with reference number OOU/ACA/P.1200/237 was addressed to Osho, who was the pioneer Vice Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, and signed by the Secretary of Council, Mrs. O.A. Osunsanya who doubled as the Registrar of the school at that time. Therein, Osho was referred as a Doctor and not a Professor. Although Osho was not at the swearing in ceremony of the new commissioners in Abeokuta, it was gathered that her absence was not unconnected with the dismissal scandal. This was later confirmed by a source, on condition of anonymity, which was closer to the seat of power. The source further confirmed that the state government was aware of the dismissal and was making frantic effort to quash the dismissal before Osho would be sworn in. At the point of dismissal, Osho, according to the letter, was of the Department of Home Sciences and Hospitality Management, College of Agricultural Sciences, Ayetoro campus of the university. The Governing Council at its 182nd meeting, according to the letter, held that the allegation against Osho was duly investigated by the Staff Professional Ethics and Discipline Committee which found her guilty. The content of the letter reads, “Council at its 182nd meeting held on Tuesday March 8, 2016, considered the report of allegation of gross misconduct levelled against you which was duly investigated by the Staff Professional Ethics and Discipline Committee and submitted a report through Appointment and Promotion Committee. “In considering the recommendations before it, council viewed your action as unethical, and a gross misconduct which is contrary to university’s rules and regulations and the conditions stated out in your letter of appointment. Council therefore, in line with earlier recommendations of the Staff Professional Ethics and Discipline Committee and in accordance with extant codes of conduct, approved that you should be dismissed from the service of the University with effect from March 8, 2016. “In view of the above, I am to inform you of your dismissal from the service of the university with effect from 8th March, 2016. You’re hereby requested to handover all university properties in your possession to your Head of Department.” Although the letter did not detail Osho’s offence, it was gathered reliably that she was dismissed for alleged mismanagement of fund and abscondment. The source further explained that the dismissal followed due process as Osho was represented by counsel from Afe Babalola chambers before the Staff Professional Ethics and Discipline Committee. The immediate-past Education Commissioner, Modupe Mujota, who is also a member of Ogun State House of Assembly (Abeokuta North Constituency) which screened Osho told Sunday INDEPENDENT that she couldn’t recall the particular case as many of such issues were communicated to her by Governing Councils. “I am not aware, neither am I able to comment at this time, the Governing Council would have taken the decision but I can’t recall whether such disciplinary action was taken, I can’t recall,” she said. When pressed further on how such record evaded the House of Assembly, Mujota said, “I wasn’t around throughout the screening exercise because my family was bereaved and I was away attending the burial, honestly, I wasn’t aware throughout the exercise.” The Public Relations Officer of the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Adeniyi Oduwole, confirmed that Osho was a staff of the university, but could not give information as to the circumstances under which she left the institution. But, Osho’s dismissal was further confirmed following her appeal to the Governing Council after almost four years, to commute her dismissal to withdrawal of service. The same appeal was turned down by the Council at its statutory meeting on January 14. A council member, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he had no instruction to talk on the matter, confirmed that the appeal of the dismissed lecturer was on the agenda, but the Council could not reverse itself. He said: “Yes, her matter came up, Council could not reverse itself, there was no material with which council can reverse itself.” Both Osho and the Ogun State government have maintained sealed lips on the development and especially on what the next action of the government is going to take. When contacted, Osho said, “I appreciate you for seeking my own side of the story. I am aware. But, I am not granting any interview until after I am done with my own investigation and I will get back to you. Thank you.” Joseph Odemuyiwa’s Case Following the revelations involving Osho in a Sunday INDEPENDENT publication, Governor Abiodun warned his appointees during an Executive Council Strategy Session on January 18, to be guided in their public conducts, saying, “You are now public servants and you have joined the league of politically exposed people. Your conduct, utterances and public personality will now come under intense public scrutiny, so, be guided accordingly.” This was followed by a circular from the office of the Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi, requesting all appointees to submit copies of their academic qualifications. The order, which was contained in a circular with reference number SSG/ADM. 22/251, reads, “Kindly note that all political appointees are required to submit copies of their academic qualifications along with an updated copy of their curriculum vitae. These documents should be collated and submitted to the office of the Secretary to the State Government.” But, as if the scandal was not embarrassing enough, the government was again enmeshed in another academic controversy as another Special Adviser in charge of the same education ministry, Joseph Odemuyiwa, was also accused of dismissal, not only at OOU, but also at the Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun, Ogun State; Kwara State University, Ilorin, Kwara State and University of Lagos, Lagos State. Odemuyiwa, just like Osho, was alleged to have been dismissed from TASUED and OOU in 2011 and 2013, respectively, in connection with fake certificate and forgery of academic records. Although Odemuyiwa, in a release on January 20, titled, “Re: My purported sack from two universities due to suspected certificates forgery”, explained how he left each of the institutions, but curiously left out his attainment of academic qualifications, especially the PhD and Professorship status, which were the high points of the allegations against him. He also denied being sacked from any institution where he had worked. He said: “I took the adjunct job (In Kwara State University) because of my determination to sustain Business Education as much as possible in universities in Nigeria especially the South West during my tenure as the National President of the Association of Business Educators of Nigeria (ABEN). “I was fully on ground for KWASU even as an adjunct lecturer because my home university, Olabisi Onabanjo University, was on industrial strike. As soon as the industrial strike in OOU was over and I could no longer cope with KWASU services, I gave a letter of resignation dated 1st March 2011. The letter was never acknowledged to date. My final departure from KWASU fetched me a letter later requesting for a refund of all salaries and allowances paid to me during my stay with them with a claim that I got the job illegally. I paid all, as requested, including all tax earlier deducted to fulfill all righteousness.” On TASUED, Odemuyiwa said he was on sabbatical at the university in 2005 and was later offered a part time job towards the end of 2008 as a Senior Lecturer and later as an External Examiner for Business Education for the 2008/2009 and 2009/2010 sessions, but never told the story of how he left the institution. Odemuyiwa said he went back to OOU because of his quest to get to the peak of academic career and that his application was summoned by the then governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, who, according to him, gave him an Executive approval ‘of my professorial chair as a minute on my application under reference to the Vice Chancellor.’ “The university responded to my application by giving a letter of appointment as a Senior Lecturer (a position I never applied for, and which I have been occupying since 2005. This was dated 30th March. 2011. I was persuaded to accept the offer in the interim to allow for proper processing of the visitor’s approval of my full professorial chair. This I did but never resumed till date. “One thing I remember, the university management invited me for an interview for the position of a Reader/Associate Professor which I never applied for after the exit of Otunba Gbenga Daniel. I attended this interview to put my skills to test for a higher academic position. The outcome of the interview was never known or communicated to me till date, I still earnestly await it. I am also yet to receive any letter booting me out of any of the universities where I worked for forged certificates.” Odemuyiwa’s claim was faulted by the Registrar of OOU, Ogunwomoju Olufemi Ayodele, who confirmed to Sunday INDEPENDENT that Odemuyiwa was actually dismissed from the university. He said: “What I know is that he was dismissed for gross misconduct. He is no longer our staff. He was dismissed in 2013. I can’t say more for now.” The Ogun State government is yet to make its position known as Odemuyiwa continues to serve in his capacity as the Special Adviser on Education, the same sector and under the same ministry where he was confirmed dismissed. Hon. Biyi Adeleye’s case Biyi Adeleye, a former member of Ogun State House of Assembly, is presently Special Adviser to Governor Abiodun on Political Matters. Adeleye has a share of the ongoing qualification quagmire in Ogun State. His own case was rather not a new matter. His qualification was challenged, as a lawmaker in the State; he was brought before Justice Adamu Turaki Mohammed of the Abeokuta Federal High Court in a suit number FHC/AB/CS/3/17. Some acclaimed members of his constituency, Remo North State Constituency; Wasiu Taiwo Gbadebo and Onamuyiwa Isaac Olumuyiwa had challenged his qualification as presented to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The case was decided, but on jurisdictional issue. The Judge held, “In the instance case, having examined the Plaintiff’s/Respondent’s reliefs sought in the Writ of Summons and statement of claim dated 19th January, 2017, it is clear that the Plaintiff’s/Respondent’s action is challenging the qualification/eligibility of the second Defendant/Respondent (Adeleye) as a member of the Ogun State House of Assembly which is outside the exclusive jurisdiction of this court conferred under section 25(1) of the constitution. “Similarly, Plaintiff’s/Respondent’s has not shown that there is any other law that confer jurisdiction to this Court on the subject in accordance with Section 251(1) (s) referred to and reproduced above. I so hold. Having decided as above, I find that the subject matter of the Plaintiff’s/Respondent’s suit in the Writ of Summons and Statement of Claim dated January 19, 2017 is not within the jurisdiction of this court. Consequently, the Plaintiff’s/Respondent’s Writ of Summons dated January 19, 2017 is dismissed.” When the accusation resurfaced again recently, Adeleye was quick to again dismiss same, accusing his accusers, this time, of beating a dead horse. He further said that he was settling down for serious business of government and was not ready to engage the naysayers. A statement personally signed by Adeleye on January 21 read, “The Special Adviser (SA) to the Ogun  State Governor of Political Matters, Hon. Biyi Adeleye, has dismissed the recent report by an online medium that he forged his academic credentials, as the handiwork of the enemies of Dapo Abiodun’s administration, who according to him, are beating a “dead horse”. “Adeleye said those behind the latest allegations are merely muck-racking. They are out of time. These same allegations have not only been raised about three years ago, it was also dismissed by a court of competent jurisdiction. “Not satisfied with the lower court’s judgment, the litigants appealed the matter at the Appeal Court, Ibadan, Oyo state and still, their case was not only dismissed, but the accusers were also made to pay fines. I am settling down to serious business of governance and have no time for the naysayers.” Screening As A Political Ritual The qualification controversies in Abiodun’s government are quite unfortunate, especially when the state had to wait for seven months for the government to choose the best amongst the star-studded population many of whom are not only within the reach of the governor but are also willing to work with his administration. Many of them were paraded in Abiodun’s transition committees. This has also exposed the seriousness attached to the screening by political appointees by the State Houses of Assembly and the National Assembly and also security agencies like the DSS (if allowed to do their job). The screening has become a political ritual rather than real screening which should include background checks of claims by would be appointees. The case of Kemi Adeosun is still fresh in memory after serving for four years in Ogun State and almost another four years as Finance Minister at the federal level despite passing through series of screenings. The development, no doubt, is a serious distraction to the administration of Governor Abiodun that was expected to sit down for serious business of governance after all the waiting. The studied silence from the seat of power in the state could only continue to postpone the evil day. The development remains a stain in the integrity of the administration and would remain so for long except a decisive action is taken by the government. Many have argued that if Governor Abidoun has resolved to work with the controversial characters despite the concerns and public noise reaching deafening crescendo, the integrity of the education sector as exemplified in the attention given to it by the administration, should not be sacrificed on the altar of party loyalty or godfathers nomination. If there are no other qualified persons in Ogun State except these characters, the education sector, at least, should be spared, not only because of the moral burden that will remain with the administration, but because of safety and security of the operators in the sector who might have played legitimate roles in the dismissal of Osho and Odemuyiwa, as they may become the targets of the duo, as suggested by some public analysts. Redeployment to other areas like Women Affairs for Osho, and another ministry for Odemuyiwa, would, to a large extent, ease the moral burden and public outcry on the administration. Whatever the decision is at the end of the day, the buck stops at the desk of the Governor Abiodun, who is the captain of the ship.