ASABA – Determined to curtail the excesses of some overzealous policemen, the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) has been able to subdue a Police Sergeant attached to Asaba ‘A’ Division, Asaba, Delta State. The policeman, Galadima Nwayama, who allegedly slapped a lawyer, had been pleading for forgiveness over his misdeed. He slapped the lawyer identified as Samson Chidozie Okehielum who had a matter before Justice F. N. Azinge of High Court 4, Asaba, on January 13, 2020, in Asaba, Delta State capital was in the Commissioner of Police convoy. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He is begging for forgiveness for his misdeed, stressing that his action and inaction do not in any way represent his person, with a vow to be of good behaviour henceforth. According to the National Publicity Secretary of NBA, Kunle Edun, the policeman, Galadima Nwayama of the ‘A’ Division Police Station, Asaba, who was in the convoy of the Commissioner of Police, was reported to have slapped the lawyer. He said trouble started after the policeman in company of his colleagues who were in the convoy of the State Commissioner of Police (CP) removed a barricade on the road including a notice, ‘Court In Session’ signboard usually placed by the court because of the noise from vehicles plying the road with two other alternative routes for motorists to use. He said, “During the commotion, the court had to rise and lawyers came out to caution the CP’s convoy that they should not remove the barricade and advised them to take the alternative routes. One of the police officers, Sergeant Galadima Nwayama of the ‘A’ Division Police Station, Asaba (who was in the convoy) confronted our colleague and slapped him. Eventually the convoy passed and still returned again passing same route. “Immediately I got wind of it, I reached out to our colleague. He subsequently filed an action to enforce his fundamental rights against the said Sergeant and the Police authorities. “The Police authorities through the Command’s Legal Department reached out to me and requested for out-of-court settlement. Our colleague discussed with the Police legal team and stated that he would forego reimbursement of the legal expenses incurred.” Expressing regret for his action, the police sergeant in an apology letter to the lawyer and NBA, Justice Azinge and staff of High Court 4, Asaba, said, “I sincerely regret my actions and inaction that led to my assaulting Barrister Samson Chidozie Okehielum and accordingly, I hereby apologise to the Presiding Judge Honourable Justice F. N Azinge, the entire staff of High Court 4, Asaba, the applicant in the above suit, and the NBA for my actions and inaction on that fateful day.”