The CLEEN Foundation, a Non-Government Organisation, has established a Legal Resource Centre at the Nigerian Bar Association Ikeja Bar.
Benson Olugbuo, Executive Director of the foundation, in his welcome remarks at the official launch of Lagos State Resource Centre for hosting corruption judgments,  said the centre was being sponsored by the foundation with support from the Mac Arthur Foundation.
He said it would provide free access to a digital library of Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) in Lagos State ACJA and judgements on corruption and financial crime cases.
Olugbuo said, “This initiative is part of our ongoing project on Promoting Accountability and Transparency in the Administration of Criminal Justice System in Nigeria with the support of the MacArthur Foundation.
“The goal of the project is hinged on reducing corruption, promoting judicial transparency in processing anti-corruption cases; and enhancing accountability in the criminal justice system in Nigeria.”
He explained that the centre was established with a view to making information (recent case laws- hard copies of court ruling/judgements with application of ACJA), on corruption and accountability easily accessible (online and offline) to legal practitioners, law enforcement agencies, judges, prosecutors, defendants, government agencies responsible for the administration of criminal justice, civil society organisations working for justice sector reforms, legal scholars and researchers.
“Additionally, this project principally seeks to monitor cases of corruption in relation to the ACJA 2015 through a web-based platform- Uwazi which is functional, accessible and within the reach of the public.
“It is against this background that the Nigerian Barr Association (NBA) has been selected to serve as a partner to host the resource centre in Lagos State. It is for this reason that we are gathered here today to witness the launch of the centre which will serve as a repository of hard copies of court rulings on corruption-related cases and or financial crimes cases related to the administration of criminal justice for easy access and usage of legal practitioners and our state partners.
“For more impact-based monitoring and reporting of the administration of the criminal justice system across our focal states, the state working group meeting has now been realigned to hold on a Bi-monthly basis.  It is expected that our partners hosting the centre will give updates on the resource centre and its successes at their meetings,” Olugbuo said.