LAGOS – President General of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) Comrade Abdulwaheed Adeyanju has raised the alarm over unapproved jetties and terminals springing up in Lagos under the guise of evading congestions and traffic gridlock in the state. He described the practice as an illegality, calling on the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to immediately investigate and clamp down on these properties. Adeyanju said that berthing container laden barges at private properties constitutes a high level of security risk because these properties do not have presence of government officials or dockworkers. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He argued that the NPA, NIMASA, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and dockworkers are supposed to be at the jetties and terminals. “The government should look inwards and investigate private properties being turned into terminals and jetties, there should be presence of government regulatory agents in that area or else they would turn it into another means of importing dangerous cargoes, we have to be very careful of these jetties” “If I have a place at Trinity bus stop now and I say I am bringing in barges, who is inspecting the containers? The facility must be inspected and approval must be given to whoever is using it, not that somebody would just turn their private resident to a terminal”, he said. The MWUN PG also said that the use of barges to evacuate cargoes from the port have not really ameliorated the traffic gridlock challenge on Lagos port access roads. According to him, despite the use of barges, the roads are still littered with trucks bearing empty containers. “Has that reduced the influx of empty containers on the roads? Barges operation is not a new thing to Nigerian port, we have been using it in the olden days when we have congestion, but has it now reduced the influx of empty containers on the road” he said Recall that the Lagos Port Manager of NPA, Mrs Funmilayo Olotu at a stakeholders meeting organised by the Nigerian Shippers Council in Lagos recently raised similar concerns of private residents of Apapa turning their properties into private jetties where barges are being received. The NPA manager recounted that there has been an attempt by NPA to inspect such facility but the attempt was met with attacks from the operator. According to her, when she and her team tried accessing one of the properties on Creek Road in Apapa, they were pelted with stones.