LAGOS  – About two years after con­tending parties have let the dust settle over dis­engagement of spy po­licemen formerly under the work­force of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPN), a fresh dust is bubbling in the court of public opinion in Akwa Ibom State as to who did what and who did not do the expected. Whereas the disput­ed matter has been in the public domain, having been in law courts for 13 years, the free-for-all argu­ment is fraught with fractions of facts and fabulous fallacies. For
instance, though Udom In­oyo, currently the Executive Vice Chairman of MPN was
not per­sonally a party while the conten­tion between MPN and its former
security personnel lasted from the Federal High Court to the Su­preme Court, he
is now in the dock in the fussy court of public opin­ion, where everyone
combines the role of being a judge, prosecutor, counsels and witnesses at the
same time. And the fact of the matter is fatally the major casualty. The
truth of the matter is that in 2018 hundreds of security per­sonnel were
disengaged from MPN after over 13 years of labour dis­pute. In all, the
affected workers were about 900. Of this number, a lot of them had either
retired or moved on to other jobs or even died before the decision to lay off
the security personnel, who were pop­ularly known as spy policemen. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Those
who were still rendering service to the company as at the peak of the dispute
were about 500. On the face of it, however, the figure paints a grim and
humongous pic­ture of people sentenced to wallow in wants of non-existence job
in the Nigerian labour market, with extended effects on multiple of dependents
of each of the person affected. As
it is always the case with in­ternational oil companies (IOC), op­erating in
Nigeria, the controversial circumstances culminating in the disengagement of
the spy police­men enjoyed headlines, while the accompaniments of the job termi­nation
were subsumed with obscu­rity within the big stories of the number of sacked
security workers. It
was gathered that the former spy policemen were all paid their benefits with
some getting as much as N20 million while the least among them got home with
N15 million. It is against this backdrop that some informed and perceptive
minds view the sacking of the security workers as a blessing in disguise in
that the annual basic salary per per­son was in the range of N1.5 million,
implying that the sacked workers smiled to their banks with about eight to 10
times of their yearly ba­sic salaries. Most of them have sec­ondary school
certificates as their highest qualifications. In
addition to the take-home package, the disengaged staff would also receive
pensions in line with the company’s pension policy. The 860 spy policemen to be
paid these benefits comprised of the 508, who were in the MPN system till the
time the pay-off was effected and 360 oth­ers, who had been disengaged from the
services of MPN long before the Supreme Court judgment. Deceased
persons in the catego­ry of the sacked workers were also accommodated. It was
also learnt that accrued entitlements of those who died before the exercise
were paid to beneficiaries or estates of the deceased, as their cases applied. In
addition, the company also offered Human Resources consulting services to
assist the sacked workers with employment opportunities through third-par­ty
engagement. MPN, which is an affiliate of Exxon Mobil, is said to have a
tradition of retaining security services through third parties who are best
positioned to provide core competencies. Prior
to the Supreme Court decision in the matter between MPN and its former security
per­sonnel, the spy policemen relation­ship with the oil company had the
structure of third party engage­ment as their salaries were being paid through
the Nigerian Police Force, with the company contrib­uting monthly to augment
it. Initially,
most of the security personnel, who joined the service in the 1990s, were
employed direct­ly by MPN. Advancing the need for competent training and
enhance­ment of professionalism, as well as ensuring that the company stay
consistence with the global practice of the company, the multinational company
entered into a deal with the Nigerian Police Force and hand­ed over the spy
policemen to the Force. The Nigerian Police Force, which even recruited more,
trained and deployed them to MPN. The spy
policemen preference to be counted among the work­force of the oil company
instead of belonging to the Nigeria Police Force ignited the collision course
between them and MPN, which led to protest by the former and thereafter
institution of legal ac­tion against the latter. The litigation,
which com­menced by way of originating summons filed on March 15, 2005 before
the Federal High Court, Uyo division, was instituted by 15 of the security
personnel. Among those, who filed the matter for themselves and on behalf of
their colleagues, were Okon Johnson, Nkereuwm Akpe, Nsitighe Ikpam, Calistus
Nwafor, Emmanuel Nwokezi and Eric Teenwi. Others were Affiong Etim, Amangi Ala,
Joseph Bam­ishaye, Godwin Tombra, Charles Okon, Dada Rotimi, Raji Lateef, Taiwo
Laidi and Opubo Sukubo. The
nitty-gritty of the matter for determination by the court was the employees’
status, as to which of the organizations – between the MPN and the Nigerian
Police Force – they belong. The plaintiffs also claimed several declaratory and
injunctive reliefs against MPN and the Nigerian Police Force. Fur­ther, they
claimed special and gen­eral damages, including payment of N50, 635,850 to each
of the 833 number of members of the plain­tiffs as Mobil employees. The entire
firework of the suit was premised on affidavits deposed to by the parties.
Aside the 15 spy policemen and MPN, other parties in the matter were the Inspector
General of Police, the Akwa Ibom Commissioner of Police and the Nigerian Police
Council. On January 24,
2006, Justice Gladys Olotu, who presided over the matter, granted some of the
re­liefs but held that the spy policemen were not employees of the MPN but that
of the Nigerian Police Force. Dissatisfied with the judgement of the trial
court, the representatives of the security personnel appealed to the Court of
Appeal. On May 21,
2009, a three-man panel of judges at the Court of Ap­peal, Calabar Division,
presided by Kamai Aka’ahs reversed the judge­ment of the Federal High Court and
decided in favour of the spy police­men. The other two judges of the panel were
Jean Omokri and The­resa Orji-Abadua. The MPN was
still not satisfied with the decision of the Court of Appeal, hence appealing
to the Su­preme Court, which, on April 20, 2018 in a unanimous judgement read
by Justice John Okoro dis­missed the appeal and upheld the judgement of the
Court of Appeal. The five-judge panel that adjudicat­ed on the matter was
presided over by Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour. Others judges that sat on the
appeal were Justices Mary Peter-Odili, Amiru Sanusi and Sidi Bage. In upholding
the judgement of the lower court, the Supreme Court hinged its decision on the
Court of Appeal’s position that the appoint­ments of the spy policemen were not
done in conformity with the Police Act. Aligning to averment of Femi Falana
(SAN), who was coun­sel to the security personnel, Justice Odili stated at page
376, paragraphs D to E of the judgement: “I agree with learned counsel for the
1st to 15th respondents (the spy police­men) that addressing them as spy police
constable does not confer on them the status and privilege of po­licemen having
not been appointed in compliance with the Police Act, section 18 precisely. “It follows
that the appellant (MPN) seeking to anchor on the presumption of regularity
provid­ed for under Section 150(1) and (2) of the Evidence Act would not avail
them since for that presumption to operate there must be some facts brought
forward to show to the court that what has been done was done substantially as
required by law and in this case that hurdle of compliance is absent.” Thereafter,
rationalising that the oil company needed to focus ade­quate attention on its
sole business of crude oil and gas production, the MPN maintained that it did
not have requisite capacity to accommo­date about 900 security personnel, which
was said to be higher than the number of engineers in the company, hence
effecting the ter­mination of the security personnel as its employees with
their accrued benefits in line with the company’s policies. Even after the
decision of the apex court, the dispute was not im­mediately put to rest, as
the securi­ty personnel, in what looked like a final onslaught, resorted to
acts of picketing, blockade and defacing of the company facilities, among oth­er
acts of protest, in the company’s offices in Lagos and Eket in Akwa Ibom to
press home their demands. In fact, a truce came after inter­vention by the Ministry of Labour and Employment. At the instance of the Labour and Employment Minister, Chris Ngige, a meeting was held with the relevant parties. That meeting culminated in a min­isterial directive setting up a team comprising of representatives of MPN’s management, representa­tives of the security personnel along with their lawyer, Falana, represen­tatives of PENGASSAN and some officials of the ministry. In fact, in addition to MPN’s pol­icy, the modus
operandi that guided the disengagement of the security personnel and payment of
their entitlements was arrived at from inputs from the stakeholders at the
meeting convened by Ngige. Amidst
the subtle uproar trailing the sacked security personnel, there is growing
notion in some quarters in Akwa Ibom that the Vice Chair­man of MPN, by virtue
of being an indigene of Akwa Ibom, where the company has a chunk of its pro­duction
from, ought to show biases in favour of the people of the state, particularly
in terms of job oppor­tunities and welfare of workers. In a
chat with Sunday Indepen­dent, Eyibio Okon, a legal practi­tioner based in Uyo
said that “In­oyo should have done something, by way of lobbying”. According to
him, “what Mobil did cannot be said to be the company’s policy that he cannot
intervene”, adding that “in some cases, even company policies can be tinkered
with.” But
Efremfon Usenideh, a lawyer and development banker based in Lagos, argued that
“The fact that one occupies an exalted position in a company through merit and
diligence does not mean that such person sits in his busy office or the comfort
of his home to take deci­sions.” Usenideh,
who has worked in various financial organisations for over 20 years, continued:
“A compa­ny upon incorporation is answer­able for its actions and inactions
subject to certain exceptions, which may make the corporate veil of the company
to be lifted. “The
tradition is that inter­national oil companies and even local corporates,
partnerships or sole proprietorships have laid out policies for engagement and
disen­gagement of employees. This are also subject to existence laws of the
country where such business concerns operate. “From my
over two decades experience drawn from local and multinational banking
companies, corporate organisations are not run like a monogamous Christian
marriage, where the husband hears from God and dispenses same to the wife, who
out of obedience, must re­spect the husband and comply. In fact, modern day
marriages abhor one-man decision taking. Mr. Inoyo as the Vice Chairman does
not sack staff. He does not determine or pay compensation. Corporations are run
through corporate rules hav­ing regards to the laws of the place, where such
corporations operate. “What
some people have failed to see is the wisdom of Exxon Mo­bil Legal and Human
Resources departments. They took the staff as their employees and thereafter
disengaged them. Contracts of em­ployment are governed by terms and conditions
of such contracts.” Making
reference to Olaniyan versus University of Lagos, which he described as one of
the landmark cases on labour matters, Usenideh concluded that “one cannot
impose a servant on a master who is unwill­ing.” Udeme
Uyoata, an acerbic com­mentator on matters of public inter­est in Akwa Ibom
aligned himself with Usenideh, opining that “Every organization has its
internal role guiding employment and employ­ability, hence Inoyo couldn’t have
been expected to act in an otherwise provincial manner”. In his
opinion, Clair George, a public affairs analyst, said: “The people of Akwa Ibom
refuse to understand that Mobil, as an or­ganization, has its standard and
modus operandi that governs the organization. Our people think that because
Inoyo is the Vice Chairman of Mobil he should dance to the tune of Akwa Ibom
people and not his employer.” Clair,
who is also an indigene of Akwa Ibom added that “The ideal thing is that every
management in any organization is more inter­ested in organizational growth,
with the that translates to growth of employees and other stakehold­ers of the
establishment while the other staff perception concerning management decision
is viewed as victimization.” Though
Udofa Assam, an estate surveyor and valuer, is pressing for more presence of
MPN in Eket and the need for the company to do more for the people of the oil
producing communities, he condemned those who attach Inoyo’s name to decision
taken by the oil company. He said: “It is unfortunate that most of the people
discussing the issue of the sacked spy policemen from Mobil don’t have the fact
of the matter.” “Inoyo
is an appointee of Mobil. He is not Mobil. He does not have personal or
unilateral power to hire and fire. His name should be detached from decision
taken by his company”, Assam, who is an indi­gene of Eket, added. Offering
explanation on why the oil company took the decision to lay off that number of
workers at a go, a source at Exxon Mobil headquar­ters in Lagos said: “When the
spy policemen were initially issued letters of employment they were informed
that the company would not be able to carry them in the company’s books as
employees. They were told that those who were strong enough to continue working
would be absorbed through a third party security provider to the com­pany.” A senior staff of the company,
who bared his mind with Sunday Independent on the condition of anonymity said
“Inoyo is an em­ployee of the company and not the owner of the company. Mobil
is not his father’s property, either. Even though he is currently the boss of
the company in Nigeria there is a boundary to what he can do and cannot do. He
does not have power to take unilateral decision and ac­tion, neither does any
other staff has, as it relates to one worker, let alone that number of workers
in question.” A retired director of the com­pany,
in an informal discussion narrated on impeccability of mul­tinational oil
companies across the globe, including the ones operating in Nigeria: “Exxon
Mobil, like any other international oil company is so structured for any
individual in the company to be personally held responsible for any decision of
the organization. The company pays serious attention to every detail concerning
the organization. Ev­ery decision of the company passes through impeccable
processes.” The former director of MPN
added that “if Nigeria, at any level of government, can imbibe at least 30
percent structure inherent in any of the international oil compa­nies, there
would be no difference between our country or state, as the case may be, and
the advanced countries of the world, in terms of good governance”. In what appeared to be a veil
response to the discussion making round that the impact of the oil company has
not added bearing to development in Akwa Ibom, Inoyo, at event packaged
recently by jour­nalists in Uyo, disclosed that Akwa Ibom constitute 35 percent
of the employees in the MPN. He said: “Akwa Ibom is blessed
to be an oil producing state, with NNPC/MPN operating here. Be­cause of this
production Akwa Ibom State’s revenue ranks amongst the highest (if not number
one), and I can tell you for free that it is a lot more than MPN. “Akwa Ibom State indigenes
alone constitute about 35 percent of all employees of the Exxon Mobil
affiliates in Nigeria. The company has contributed over N160 billion to NNDC
(Niger Delta Development Commission), and remits about N7 billion annually in
PAYEE tax to the Akwa Ibom State government. “When you drive on a newly con­structed
road, watch a match in ‘the Nest of Champion’ or fly Ibom Air, all these are
been largely enabled by the contribution of the joint ven­ture operator.” He lauded the workers of the
MPN, saying, “While thanking the managers of resources in the state for
utilizing these funds for the good of the state, we should never fail to give
kudos to the thousands of personnel, who toil every second, to bring this crude
oil to surface”, adding, “Neither should we fail to hold government (national
and sub-national) accountable for how the funds accruing to them are uti­lized.” However, he registered his
regret that what is often heard “is that the company is not doing enough for
the state. And it is worst for some us employees, who happen to come from the
state, and as Nigerians, who are working very hard to help attract funding to
the country de­spite competing locations even within the African continent.” When approached on phone to
respond directly to his role in the disengagement of spy policemen, he declined
by simply saying, “Your newspaper, as its name implies, can do an independent
investigation on it, but without my input”. Sunday Independent investiga­tion
shows that the company has about 2000 employees, constitut­ing about 160
expatriates, which represents 8 percent of the staff strength, while the
remaining 92 percent or 1840 persons are Nigeri­ans. The 35 percent Akwa Ibom
per­sons in the company is made up of over 600, leaving about 57 percent, which
is 1196 for the remaining 35 states, translating to an average of 34 persons
per state. It is assumed by many analysts
that the laying off exercise must have led up the affected persons in
socio-economic stratification – likely private entrepreneurship – with
possibility of springing up millions of naira in returns, which could have
extended advantages on many other individuals. That might have informed
Usenideh’s rhetor­ical remarked:“Is it not a blessing for a man whose annual
salary per annum was N1.5 million to have wo­ken up to receive a bulk payment
of N15 million or N20 million, as his or her case may apply? In view of the fact that Akwa
Ibom indigenes occupy appreciable number of positions at the senior cadre,
including executives and managerial level, some perceptive minds, who hold the
view that the spy policemen palaver has gener­ated much ado, situate that jux­taposing
the case of the security personnel with those of the senior staff of the
company from Akwa Ibom fits into proverbial narrative of a hunter that carries
elephant on head while at the same time using his legs in search of snails. Deducing from the foregoing,
some mentioned that it brings to mind a diminutive psyche that the first
civilian governor of Akwa Ibom, Akpan Isemin, called “etok syndrome – the
people’s mentality of pinpointing and paying premi­um to peanuts. Among the spy
po­licemen personnel, those of Akwa Ibom extraction constituted about 40
percent while the rest of the 60 percent were from other states in Nigeria. Why are the sacked spy police­men
not complaining after getting their entitlement? Is it a case of a sympathizer
crying more than the bereaved? Why is the grumbling only in Akwa Ibom? It is the foregoing questions
that brought to minds Prof Emmanuel Ayandele’s description of the for­mer Cross
River State, which Akwa Ibom was part of until 1987. The professor of History
and former Vice Chancellor of the University of Calabar has been quoted to have
said that Cross River State was “an atomistic society perpetually at war with
itself.” Efforts to get the response of
the Public Affairs Manager of MPN, Mr. Oge Udeagha, to comment on the issue was
abortive as he failed to respond to questions sent him for about two months
before this report was filed. While many opined that the cur­rent hue and cry in Akwa Ibom over the disengaged security workers at MPN got brewed by uninformed minds and spread by the gullible and mischief makers, so many as­serted that it might have to do with speculative future prospect of Inoyo – prompting a kind of anticipatory fence-off from his detractors –than his dos and don’ts at the company.