JOS – The relentless efforts of Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State at ensuring that peace reigns in the state, as well as his hard work at sustaining the path of reconciliation on the Plateau in the last five years, have not gone unnoticed. The efforts have earned him the Independent Newspaper Limited (INL) Governor of the Year 2019 on Peace and Security Award. This cheering news was communicated to the Governor in a letter delivered by the Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief of INL, Mr. Steve Omanufeme during his courtesy visit to Government House, Ray-field-Jos on Wednesday, February 12, 2020. While making the presentation, Omanufeme explained that the Selection Committee, which looked for many qualities such as the passion for good governance and priority to the security of lives and property, selected Governor Lalong after a vigorous scrutiny. According to Omanufeme “the committee resolved that the selection of the Governor of the Year should consider security as a major issue because it is the primary duty of every government as it forms the pillar on which other indices rest. Without security, there will be no development and even what has been achieved will easily be wiped out.” Lalong, according to the Managing Director, became an obvious choice because he has been able to bring calm to Plateau State by pursuing the path of peace and reconciliation while also fighting crime. This situation he acknowledged is gradually bringing back the old glory of Plateau State which is undoubtedly the Home of Peace and Tourism. The Editor-in-Chief explained that although the security challenges in Plateau State have not been completely resolved, the initiatives of Governor Lalong have proven to be effective in ensuring that violence is curbed drastically through institutional development such as the establishment of the Plateau Peace Building Agency, which is the first in the country and a model that is being replicated all over. Governor Lalong while accepting the nomination described it as a humbling experience considering the fact that his passion for peace is not only a natural instinct, but a responsibility as the Chief Security Officer of Plateau State. According to him, “I was surprised when I heard that you had selected me for the Governor of the Year Award because I always do my work without expecting praises or awards.” Governor Lalong added that he was convinced that the search for peace is the right thing to do because “there is nothing we can ever achieve in an atmosphere of violence and rancor. That is why I made peace my number one priority since assuming office and by the grace of God, we have made a lot of progress. We know that there is still more to be done hence our determination to keep building institutions that will bring our people together so that we can identify the trouble makers and criminals and deal with them appropriately.” Lalong also told his guests that his administration recently held a stakeholders’ meeting and resolved to reinvigorate the Operation Rainbow Security Outfit and commence the implementation of the Community Policing Initiative enunciated by the Inspector General of Police. He thanked Independent Newspaper Limited for the honour and promised to redouble his efforts in enduring that lasting peace returns to Plateau State as well as the entire Northern Region because of his position as the Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum. The governor will be formally presented with the award in Lagos on March 7, 2020. The choice of Lalong for the award by INL was a right decision taken at a time honour should be given to whom it is due. Since Governor Lalong was first elected in 2015, security has been one of the key pillars of his administration on. He has tackled headlong issues of security in any part of his state. Governor Lalong, the Chairman of Northern Governors Forum had recently in his bid to bring to an end the clashes between the native farmers and herders on the Plateau, organized another stakeholders, peace and security community dialogue with the theme “Community Policing In Plateau State, Exploring The Indigenous Options In Jos.” The summit was held primarily to provide options that could bring lasting peace to parts of the state following the recent upsurge of circle of violence on the Plateau. Governor Lalong in address at the summit, told the stakeholders that his state was going to key into the community policing model in dealing with security situation on the Plateau and tasked the participants to examine what the conventional security agencies such as the Police, State Security Service, Operation Safe Haven, Civil Defense and related agencies were doing in securing lives and properties in the state. According to him, his government was compelled to convene the stakeholders meeting once again “instead of ordinarily coming together to celebrate peaceful coexistence and prosperity of our land and its good people, as we were looking forward to during the forthcoming Forgiveness Day. “The unfortunate events of last month in Kulben, Kombun District in Mangu Local Government Area, as well as that of Kwatas in Bokkos Local Government that claimed over 30 precious lives of innocent citizens with many injured and properties destroyed, is most unfortunate and a bitter pill to swallow.” According to the Governor, “It is difficult to comprehend this carnage because the two events appeared to be deliberately orchestrated to test the resolve of our administration in bringing back peace to the state and also undermining the security and safety of our people who are simply going about earning their livelihoods. ”Like I said both during my visit to Kulben and during the meeting with Local Government Chairmen, community leaders, traditional rulers and Ardos after the Kwatas killings, the dark days of pain, tears and sorrow will never be allowed to return to Plateau State again.” Governor Lalong recalled that in his recent security meeting with security chiefs in Jos, he told the security agencies that the killers must be fished out at all costs because his government will no longer take excuses of “unknown gunmen” who kill and maim at will on the Plateau. “That is why we directed that the community leaders and Ardos be invited and questioned with a view to assisting the security agencies with information that will lead to the arrest of the killers. They are not ghosts.” Lalong expressed confidence that this directive he gave has been acted upon, and sooner than later, those killers will be unmasked and brought before the law to answer for their crimes. ”While that is going on, we must look ahead and seek ways to forestall re-occurrence. “That is why I have convened this enlarged Peace and Security Dialogue with the theme “DOMESTICATION OF COMMUNITY POLICING IN PLATEAU STATE: EXPLORING INDIGENOUS OPTIONS” with a view to putting forward practical and proactive measures that will address these unacceptable attacks. “The dialogue seeks to explore ways towards undertaking a holistic overview of the prevailing security challenges in the state, with specific reference to a community policing model that can better respond to public safety and security. “You will recall that the Inspector General of Police last month met with Governors of the North Central States in Lafia – Nasarawa State, for a security summit where we adopted community policing as a better tool to dealing with the security situation in our geo-political zone. “At today’s dialogue meeting therefore, I expect that we shall engage in frank, open and solution-driven interaction that will enable us key into the Community Policing Model in dealing with our security situation more effectively. “Happily, we already have structures on ground which is in tandem with the Community Policing model such as the Operation Rainbow, Early warning System, Vigilante Volunteers and Community based Intelligence Volunteers. “Let us ask critical questions as to what we are doing right and what is not working, with a view to making it more effective for guaranteeing the security and safety of lives and property in Plateau State. “What do we need to do in creating synergy between their work and that of the Community Policing structure in order to achieve better results? “Since virtually every relevant stakeholder is here today, I expect that the discussions will be honest, frank and capable of leading us to a safer Plateau State that thrives on respect for human lives, good neighborliness, tolerance, justice and forgiveness. “With the array of resource persons invited to speak at this dialogue, I am optimistic that something good will come out at the end of the day.” No doubt, the matching order to security chiefs on the Plateau by Governor Lalong has started yielding results with recorded achievements they have made in arresting merchants of death and crisis entrepreneurs in the state. Only last week, the state Police Command arrested 33 cultists, several kidnappers, Boko Haram insurgents and criminals who were involved in criminal activities. They are awaiting prosecution in court to face Justice. A similar breakthrough was recorded by the Plateau joint military special task force in charge of internal peace operations in the state and its neighboring states as well as other security agencies on the Plateau thereby making Jos and its environs too hot for criminal elements to take refuge any longer. As Governor Lalong and his team of supporters prepare to storm Lagos on March 7 to receive the INL 2019 Governor Of The Year Award in the category of Peace and Security alongside other personalities that have won awards in different categories, the Governor has been telling those that matter on the Plateau that he will not leave any stone unturned in his quest to bring lasting peace and development to the door steps of the people of Plateau State.