Barrister Sogbeye Eli, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, believes that one of the party’s major problems in the state is ego trip among its top members. In this interview with DANIEL ABIA, he explains that only the National Working Committee (NWC) of APC has the constitutional power to usher in the needed peace in the party. Excerpts: What are the reasons for the crisis in the Rivers State chapter of the APC that has almost defied solutions even as we gradually move towards the 2023 general elections? With respect to whatever motivation, whatever energy behind how individuals feel in the Rivers APC as regards the crisis, my opinion is largely that some people are on ego trip. Some people are largely out there thumping their chests as if they are in WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment) where people like Hulk Hogan will come out and say, I am the champion and another superstar will come out and say the same thing. This becomes a challenge. That is not the issue because we are not in a wrestling match. The bottom line is that political parties are set up as mobilisation tools and platform for politicians who seek power. The question will be: What are we seeking power for?  Let us go back to the fundamentals. All of these rat race, all of these crises, what are they for? Is APC the only party in Rivers State? Who are the dramatis personae in this conflict? Who are these people and where are they coming from? What is the point of their divergence? When we x-ray these fundamentals, then we have an idea of why the crisis has become intractable and almost like irreconcilable. Once we understand that, we can now sort out the details. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network For instance, we have a problem of inconsistency and values, principles and ideas. Everybody believes that Rotimi Amaechi is the leader of APC in Rivers State. Is he a leader by nomenclature only! When you call him your leader, you have in a way deferred to him to lead you. He takes the lead in making decisions on your behalf. Except you want us to call you a rebel, you cannot call Amaechi a leader and at the same time you are exhibiting a massive rebellion. No house that is divided against itself stands. All of those who are in the battlefield are fighting themselves because when you begin to lack the basic tools of morality, which is to be consistent, if we know you are this, we should know you to be like that, even 10 years after. That is why people continue to respect you. You don’t change because you are not an English weather that can just change without notice. People should have serious grounds to disagree, having agreed for so long. What are the principles that made us to agree before and what has changed? For instance, we had a situation where people went to court in 2018 because of the April ward congresses. They agreed that there were no sale of forms even though they paid for the forms. The secretariat of the party did not release the forms to them. That was a valid argument. They went to court. The question is: what was the outcome of that journey? The outcome of that journey is what left us where we are today. The party could not field candidates for the elections. Those who were behind those men did not refer their minds to the APC constitution for resolution of internal dispute. Even in regular court system, I am a lawyer by the grace of God, people are walking away from sheer litigation because of the attendant cost of time factor. People are looking for alternative dispute resolution. It is a sure win, win situation. This is where members can ventilate their grievances. Where you are not satisfied, you can now proceed to the court. Those who went to court in 2018, did they take that option? No, they did not. At the end of the day, what did they get? That matter went all the way to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is done with us. The party has a legal framework which is the National Executive Committee and the National Working Committee. The party has called for fresh congresses in Rivers State. Before that fresh congress will hold, the party exercised its right to appoint a Caretaker Committee because those who are coming from Abuja to conduct the congresses will not come and hang in the air. They have to meet people on ground here, just as the name implies: caretaker committee. The committee will receive them while they conduct the congresses to lay the foundation for the Ward, LG and State congresses. After this, the party will now have a recognised leadership in Rivers State. But, people are now saying that that action by the National Working Committee was wrong. How? So, we should be like a party without head, no direction, no leadership? Nobody does that. 2018/2019 has come and gone, we are in a fresh start. As a member of a party, you must subject yourself to the rules. I read Hon Igo Aguma saying that he was not consulted by the party before the constitution of the caretaker committee. Where is that done? APC had crisis in Zamfara State, Imo state, Ogun State and elsewhere before the 2019 elections. Some persons were suspended, including governors. At what point did the National Working Committee call a meeting of the members of the executive committees in those states. Where will the statutory committee members meet with the National Working Committee? The party’s constitution did not say in the absence of valid elected committee members, the party can deal with statutory committee members. This is an assumption that is neither here, nor there. In respect to him, he (Aguma) went for a wild goose chase. I don’t think the National Working Committee holds anybody any obligation for that. What we are here for is to have a head start. The crises are gone and all of us are casualties of those crises. We must work with the National Working Committee to get it right. What I see happening here is that people are involved in tough control of territories. They want the National Working Committee to invite them as statutory members of the party to Abuja to have a fresh Berlin Conference over APC in Rivers State. Is that democracy? Is that what the constitution of the party says? You must come home and do your congresses. Those who today claim to be leaders of the party, let them come and show to us the result they brought to the party. We have two elections already: 2015 and 2019. Let them show us the results they produced. What have they brought to APC in Rivers State? A lot of people are here suffering. This is because the party has nobody anywhere. I contested for the Degema local government election before. We are still in court. How many of these people care to know what happens. In politics, you look at the big picture and diminish self for the rise of the whole. That is what great societies are made of. We must be leaders who are ready to kill self for the rise of the whole. What has the party done to compensate those who bought forms to contest different positions last year and at the end they were not issued the forms, yet the party went ahead in December to issue fresh forms for fresh congresses? The party does not exist for individuals, but for all. The party itself is a casualty of that fight that happened. The party is saying come and have fresh congresses in deference to the order of the court. So if you want to be a party officer, then step forward. The court nullified the earlier congresses based on your prayers as claimants. So, now you have the opportunity to have congresses again, why not come forward. Article 21 of the party constitution is very clear. But the party is now calling on you to come back and run another election. What about some of us who paid for forms and we were not given the forms the last time? You did not wait to hear what the party will say, you just rushed to the court. The party has not said those who bought forms were going to be excluded. In fact, the party has not even brought the guidelines yet. Is it that some people do not want the party to have a leadership in this state? For how long will this continue? I am saying, with respect to everybody, this is pure ego trip. People want to sit down in Abuja and have a fresh Berlin Conference over the APC in Rivers State. They want to have partitioning: I take this part, you take that part like what the Europeans did over Africa. That cannot happen. That is not democracy. Democracy is I can go to my ward in Degema and elect the party chairman of my choice, secretary and other officers. What comes out of that election represents the view of the majority. You must win on a lawful vote count. That is democracy. Nobody should think that Amaechi will sit with them in Abuja or somewhere as if we are in a new Berlin Conference. You want a situation where they will say oh, as a former member of the House take this or that.  What about us? Are we not members of the party? Does it worry you that if this crisis lingers on like this, there is the tendency that APC in Rivers State may lose out again in 2023? I shudder to think about the prospect of this crisis lingering further. But the question is, whose interest does this crisis serve here? I have earlier said that we must kill self for the interest of the whole. If we kill self, this crisis will not linger any further. We need to ask like Chinua Achebe did: where did the rain begin to beat us? People are digging deep. They are saying, this is my position and can’t shift. Some people are saying that if we have had direct primaries we would have had candidates. Was that the only problem? People went to court and said they were not given the form that they paid for. That is where the problem began from. But, now we have the opportunity for a new congress, why can’t you step forward and run in the elections? Everybody is entitled to run. If you win, you win. If you lose, you lose. That is where we should begin from. It must not be Senator, House of Reps member, it must not be you. When people begin to say it must be me, then you are cutting the nose to spite your face. That was what some people did last time. Some of us warned that the way things were going that time, we were going to lose it all. Those who fought gallantly and did not get anything, did that stop Amaechi from becoming a minister? Is Amaechi not sitting in the Federal Executive Council today? So, if you think you are fighting him, is that not a joke? Time has come for us to think for the whole than for self. People have gotten power by divine intervention. We should know that tomorrow is pregnant and we cannot determine what it brings. The problem of Rivers APC is ego trip. There is nothing that cannot be solved in that party. People should come down from their high horses and think about the grass root. There are many people who cannot afford food on their tables. These are the people we should be worried about. In Africa we have a common aphorism, that when two elephants fight, the grass suffers. The grass roots are being trampled upon. I had foot soldier in ONELGA, one Mr. Clever who was killed on election duty in Ward 3 Osomini in ONELGA. He was shot dead by men who wore military uniform. He had a wife with seven children. Nobody has driven down to that place to ask the wife how the children are faring.  Meanwhile, this man died in course of protecting APC interest in that unit. This is just one instance out of many. Have these men gone to the trenches alone? Can they walk on the streets alone without escorts? We have lost so many grounds and it is time for us to have a rethink and come back for the sake of the party. I ask again, post 2018/2019 fight, who lost and who won? Amaechi that you are busy fighting, is he not a minister today? Why can’t we change our dimension? Amaechi won’t be governor again. He won’t contest for House of Assembly again. We must have a general perspective in this struggle so that we can make sense. This attitude of jumping to court room at the slightest provocation, who does that? (Igo) Aguma wrote to the national chairman of the party, without having a feedback, he went to court. You want to put the cart before the horse? Amaechi has been accused of not carrying everybody along as the leader of the party and that he is too hard handed. To what extent has he, as the leader of your party in Rivers State, with the members? Has he carried me along? These loud voices that are complaining of not being carried along, are they justified to complain? Except they don’t have conscience, some of these people are very comfortable. They can afford to make noise everywhere. But, what about the grassroots people? Amaechi has always been nice to them. But, what about us? Is it that we don’t have degrees? Some people are lucky by their background. That is a mere privilege, not a right. Amaechi was a nice man to all of them. These men do not allow Amaechi to hear the people well. They lie to him that all is well. It is not possible for the big man to see all that is happening in the 391 wards. Amaechi cannot see everybody in the entire wards in the 23 LGAs. The problem in APC Rivers State is in no way similar to what happens elsewhere. When you see contention for power, these things arise. We fought in 2019 and lost, common sense should tell us that we need to take a deep breath so that we don’t make a repeat of the same mistakes again. You don’t go to court because (Senator Magnus) Abe went to court. In 2015, we lost some and won some. But, today we have nothing and this is why people should sit back and have a rethink. Take a deep breath. My heart bleeds that people think the only way to solve our problems is to go to court. Amaechi has never given me any contract even when he was a governor until now that he is a two-time minister. But, can these people say the same thing. We know those that Amaechi has practically paid everything for them. This is not the time to take stock of who has achieved what. Is it true that members are leaving Rivers APC in droves? People can leave. Others are coming in too. People may not come to the party because certain persons are still there. Do you know how many people came into APC before the elections who were not happy with Governor Nyesom Wike? Do you also know how many people we lost because of their shenanigans? We are still in political system that has no ideology. People are just moving about looking for how they can survive. The hue and cry you see is out of greed. Some people say Amaechi is autocratic. But at some point he was lenient with them. Aguma said in the interview that Amaechi must not be a minister to be leader, must you be a minister? Is it about position and power? We have had enough hemorrhaging. We have bled for too long. People must let go certain things. Finally, what is the way out of Rivers APC crisis? There is what they called the national working committee of the APC. At the moment, that is the statutory organ of the party that is empowered by the constitution to take decision for the party. Amaechi is a member of the NEC, not NWC. That body, NWC will tell us what to do. Ours is to follow in compliance with the law and the guidelines of the party. That is the way to go. When congresses are held and leaders emerge, let that leadership now manage the party. We have been bruised, we all have injuries to show, it is time for self-cleansing. The NWC will take us out of where we are today. We must kill self and ego. We must think deeply about the consequences of our actions on the grass root. The NWC must lead the way out of this crisis.