Olanrewaju Suraj is the Chairman, Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA), which has been on the forefront of the fight against corruption and other issues in the country. In this interview with IFEDAYO SAYO, he spoke on the success of the anti-corruption crusade of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, among other crucial issues. Excerpts: Let us look at the fight against corruption in the country by the Federal Government. Are we moving in the right direction? Thank you for having me as your guest. I think the question can be answered in three folds: Are we moving in the right direction? My categorical answer is YES! Are we moving at the expected and desired pace? My answer will be categorical NO! Are we making progress? My answer would be Yes and No. We have a government that is striving to change the narrative of this country, but has consistently moved three steps forward and two steps backward. The president has made significant and commendable moves to reduce corruption in the system and governance but acts in isolation and concisely failed to achieve as a team. The President remains unrepentantly stubborn in the face of public outcries against individuals in his government and even his direct aides. The Auditor General of the Federation consistently released reports indicting the ministries and arms of government without any constructive and direct responsive to these reports. The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) remains in acting capacity without any direction from the Presidency because the presidency is divided on the confirmation due to internal wrangling in the camp of the president. We are facing the right direction for reforms in governance, institutionalisation of fight against corruption, stolen assets recovery, and restoration of the countries glory from the pariah past under previous governments but the internal contradictions, occasioned by the inability of the president to provide desired leadership and take decisive actions against internal saboteurs frustrates and prevents tangible results and achievements. The Federal Government anti-graft crusade has received so many criticisms from the opposition parties which described it as one-sided. Is this perception right? This is always the campaign of the opposition, elites affected by the fight against corruption and selected few. It is a common cliché you read and hear once the fight against corruption touches core nerves of the ruling elites. We are yet to hear the prosecution and investigation of innocent members of opposition, but rather the prosecution of suspected and even guilty opposition members. We must stay away from amplifying that nicely scripted propaganda to derail accountability for all former and serving public officers. We owe it a duty to avoid coloration and clarification of people accused of corruption and abuse of office. Those accused should clear their names in the court of justice and too on the pages of papers and through attempts at stampeding the law enforcement agencies. It is important to challenge the propagators of the campaign to provide verifiable empirical evidence to support the criticisms. The public should be confronted with some of the evidence in support of the claims. The statistics would be interrogated to establish the claims and confirm the spate of prosecution and conviction. The fact that someone in opposition is convicted by the court, but not the executive, defeats such argument and campaign. We must avoid reducing every attempt at repositioning the country, especially around the fight against corruption, to religious, ethnic, political and gender consideration. What are the things the government is not doing right in its fight against corruption? The coordination that is expected of a central authority, in the case the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation, is clearly missing. The anti-corruption agencies have successful graduated from competition to collaboration, but still short of coordination. That was expected of the AGF’s office to drive the agenda of the government through the agencies. But rather, the agencies are abandoned to set their agenda and operate without coordination. The government, through the office of the Attorney General of the Federation has pandered to political influences in its management by frustrating the effective prosecution of suspects by the agencies through the withdrawal of pending cases. You will remember the case of EFCC and Senator Danjuma Goje. There was also the case of Abebe, the brother of late Stella Obasanjo. Whereas the office of Attorney General and by extension the government, succeeded in the Goje case, it met with a brick wall in the Abebe case because the case involved state offences and completely outside the power of the AGF. Situations are allowed to degenerate to stage of embarrassment for the government and the country before responses are offered in cases of allegations of corruption involving serving officials of the government. The Director General of National Broadcasting Commission was indicted by the ICPC for corruption and abuse of office. The public expectation was the immediate suspension of that DG in respect for the rules of the government. But, what do you have? There was criminal silence all through the channels. Within same government, no clear direction or action from either the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the Attorney General or Chief of Staff. It is a function of who you know and which camp you belong to enjoy some measure of immunity in impunity. The Special Presidential Panel chaired by Special Adviser to the President, Chief Okoi Obono-Obla, uncovered several cases of corruption and misappropriation of public resources. There were allegations of abuse of office against him and he was asked to hand over to the Solicitor General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Justice. Those cases of monumental amount of funds are being frustrated, as it has always been the case with other cases handed over to the Ministry of Justice, and suspects returning to their position to continue with their alleged criminal acts. Bills very relevant for the fights against corruption are before the National Assembly, even those passed by the Eighth Assembly, without any clear roadmap or coordinated action by the executive to have them passed. The Proceeds Crime Management Bill, the Whistleblower Protection Bill, are there without any serious attempt by the executive to exploit the favourable relationship with the Assembly or the ruling party’s domination to ensure their speedy passage to strengthen the anti-corruption fight. The government has one of the greatest tools, well structured, for the reorientation, education and mobilisation of the citizens to own the anti-corruption process and efforts; National Orientation Agency. Sadly enough, that agency with its over 800 offices across the country, is rendered impotent with the starving of funds and facilities wasting away. That is why great propaganda machine the government is failing to utilise for communicating messages to the citizens and also take feedback from them. It is shameful that no alternative mechanism is created and the existing one is so disregarded. This is a reflection of what you see with the Lassa fever and Coronavirus cases. The people are allowed to feed on rumour and misinformation, in the absence of government information and communication. Let us look at HEDA. What is the organisation doing to ensure that the fight against corruption is being implemented in the right direction? At the level of HEDA, our approaches to the fight against corruption are collaboration, research, advocacy, public interest litigation, networking and capacity building We have developed constructive engagement and collaboration with the law enforcement agencies (EFCC, ICPC, NFIU and CCB) in the promotion of effective prosecution of the laws and mandates of the agencies. We have collaborated with many of the agencies in information sharing, complaints filing, joint projects implementation, facilitation of international engagements and even criticism of the agencies when performance is below expectation. In this collaboration, we are striving to place ordinary citizens and other stakeholders at the centre of the anti-corruption efforts and facilitate their interactions with the law enforcement agencies. We also build local and international partnership for bespoke research works around local and international issues connected to corruption, illicit financial and assets flows, corporate corruption and assets tracing. Some of the outcomes are subject of local and international advocacy by civil society organisations and government, including the Nigerian government. The outcome of the organisation’s research work on the Malabu Production Sharing Contract, in collaboration with foreign partners, is currently being used by the government to demand compensation from JP Morgan in the UK and multinational oil companies (ENI and Shell) in Italy. The organisation has advocated for the effective implementation of the laws and standard in the operations of government at all levels and tiers of government. We have a record of highest possible petitions written by a single organisation in the country. We even monitor the agencies and also extend the advocacy to them as a means of putting them under watch of the public. We have received impressive collaboration from some of them, resulting in prosecution of high profile office holders. We challenge offices of government and officials in the administration of public funds and proffer alternative solution to identify shortcomings in governance. We support other stakeholders to hold accountable those saddled with the responsibilities of leadership. We have instituted independent legal actions against government officers and institutions in their failure to abide by the principles and laws guiding their office. We have deployed the Freedom of Information Act in obtaining information and record from government agencies and failure of many of them to respect the law were met with necessary legal actions in court. Some established public and private conspiracy toward diversion of public fund were challenged by the organisation in court. Many of these actions were instituted in public interest and for public good. We support the citizens through facilitation of access to the agencies, trainings and public interactive fora for engagement of the agencies. We created a toll free line for citizens to expose cases of corruption and bribe witnessed or experience. We created, with our partners, the Anti-Corruption Situation Room, and bring the civil society, media, professional organisations and anti-corruption agencies across the table for interaction on anti-corruption issues and promotion of accountability in governance. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recently deregistered some political parties. Would you say the action is in the right decision in view of the fact that it might narrow down choices of the electorate? I think the country is yet to fully evolve in the political development and citizens are yet to appreciate the essence of multiple political parties. Party leaders are not building people-oriented political parties, but rather, an exclusive club. Many of the political parties deregistered existed only on papers and ballot papers without any mass appeal and membership. Existence of many parties, including the two leading parties, is linked to their access to public fund through ruling in states and Federal Government. Whereas, the funding of political parties is primarily from its members and that is the primary constituency to which it is accountable. The deregistration is sad, but I think people behind the parties need to do some introspection and clearly define how the parties will function, even if the focus is a council area, with mass support and appeal. Operation Amotekun has been launched in South West. What in your own view should be done to ensure that the group does not turn into another militia group oppressing the opposition? I am yet to convince myself we are not creating another monster with the creation of the Amotekun. I have seen so much motion without movement. I have seen so much politics without plan and strategy. I am seeing a political machine than a security outfit. The proponents of the outfit play more politics than designing a security outfit that will respond to the yearnings of the citizens. If this is short-lived, the people will realise within months, the lack of depth in the implementation of the lofty idea. We don’t have in the public or explained to the citizens process of screening, to ensure criminals will not infiltrate the recruitment; no training facilities or colleges, no proper salary structure, no security of job designed and they will bear arms. May God help us in this whole process.