ABUJA  – The Federal Government has presented Water Use License to North South Gurara Power Company Limited for the 30MW Gurara Hydro-power Plant Station in Gurara, Kaduna State, to efficiently meet the high demands of water for domestic, agriculture, industry and other uses. Engr. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, made the presentation in Abuja, explained that “Licensing of various Water Users becomes very necessary and important to our nation at a time like this when the government is up scaling revenue generation, job creation, improved agricultural production, provision of health facilities, and provision of potable water.” Adamu therefore, charged the company “to utilise the licensing period to develop, operate and maintain your various projects in a sustainable manner. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We welcome you on board as key stakeholders in the development of the water resources sector in Nigeria, even as we look forward to more years of fruitful partnership”. This is contained in a statement by Mrs. Kenechukwu Offie, Director of Information, Federal Ministry of Water Resources. Adamu further commended the efforts of the Nigeria Integrated Water Resources Management Commission (NIWRMC) in ensuring that various water users are encouraged to obtain Water Use Licenses which is geared towards minimising the incessant abstractions, diversion and damming of the resource. Earlier in his welcome address, the Executive Director of NIWRMC, Engr. Bashir Magashi, thanked the minister for his zeal to actualise the Water Resources Bill which will strengthen the activities of the Commission. He urged the Company to adhere strictly to the terms and conditions made for the Water Use License No 00037 WL to ensure effective use of the Gurara River Water Flow as well as ensure that the flow is not used for any purpose other than as specified in the license. In his response, the Chief Executive Officer of North South Gurara Power Company, Dr. Olubunmi Peters, commended the minister’s transparent and diligent process in the concession of the 30 Mega Watt Gurara Hydro-power Plant awarded to his Company, and promised to abide by the rules guiding the License.