AKINWUNMI KING, INNOCENT OWEH, SAMUEL OGIDAN, GBENGA FATUROTI LAGOS/ABUJA/ OSOGBO – The recent travel ban placed on Nigeria and five other countries by the United States (U.S) Department of Homeland Security (DHS), is generating reactions from Nigerians, who described the development as worrisome. Former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections, Atiku Abubakar, on Saturday, said he received the news with sadness, just as he appealed to President Donald Trump to direct the new policy on government official, who failed in their duties. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In a statement personally signed by him, Atiku urged President Trump to consider adopting measures that individually target those in government who have failed in their duties, rather than target the entire Nigerian population. According to him, “While I understand the reasons given by the Trump’s administration (the failure of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to share information and to address issues of terrorism), the ban does not take into account the pro-American sentiments of the Nigerian public and the solidarity previous Nigerian administrations have had with the United States. “I urge the government of President Donald Trump to consider the history of U.S-Nigerian relationships. Nigeria was one of the few African nations that joined the U.S led coalition during Operation Desert Storm in 1990-1991, when the United States championed the liberation of Kuwait. “The Trump administration may also consider the pivotal role Nigeria, in partnership with the U.S, played in bringing peace to Liberia, an American sphere of influence, that now enjoys democracy because Nigerian blood and money paved the way for peace in that nation. “Nigeria has also consistently voted in support of the United States and her allies at the United Nations and other multi-lateral world bodies. This is even as we are perhaps the biggest trading partner that the United States has in Africa, even where we had alternatives. “Nigerians love the United States and have been a major force for the positive development of that great nation: 77 per cent of all Black doctors in the United States are Nigerians. Nigerians are also the most educated immigrant community in America BAR NONE. Surely, the U.S stands to benefit if it allows open borders with a country like Nigeria that is able to provide skilled, hardworking and dedicated personnel in a two-way traffic.” Atiku noted that the current Nigerian administration may have its deficiencies and deep faults, “but the Nigerian people ought not to be punished for their inefficiencies,” he added. Buhari’s Administration Worse Than Abacha’s Era – CUPP The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), in its reaction, noted that the travel ban is one of the visible signs of the pariah state, which President Muhammadu Buhari has turned the country into. CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said it was shocked to receive the news, just as it alleged that the regime of late General Sani Abacha, in all its ingloriousness, “was far better than this present administration.” According to the Coalition, “All indices are pointing to the fact that this All Progressives Congress government is bent on running this country aground. All parts of the country are currently under security siege with killings, kidnappings, banditry and insurgency becoming the order of the day. “The electoral impunity being displayed under this government has reversed the gains of electoral reforms carried out by past administration. “Poverty is endemic on a large scale and it is visible wherever one turns to in the country while corruption, especially in high places, has continued unabated, adding to judicial/legislative rascality and ethnic cleansing that we have been living with is this international ostracization.” CUPP, however, called on President Buhari to resign before it is too late to save the country from the consequences of his “alleged incompetence.” We’re Not Surprised – AYCF On its part, the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) said it was not surprised by the decision of the American government, noting that the failure of the present administration to curb criminal activities going on in the country led to such decision. National President of AYCF, Shettima Yerima, in a statement on Saturday, said, “I am not surprised because, you cannot live in a society where all sort of criminalities go on and, on the part of the government, they are not doing enough to arrest the situation. “Especially, when it has to do with the issue of insurgency, whereby you arrest them and subsequently, grant them pardon or whatever you call it. It is disastrous. And, you now bring them back, saying that you have rehabilitated them and bring them to the society immediately. This is not done anywhere. “So, it gives America a lot of concerns and worries. None of us, truly, sees it as anything surprising because, from all indications, we are already in a war situation as it is, presently. The worst aspect of it all is that, even those on the side of government are not helping matters. “All they do is, as soon as you make a statement against what they do or think it should be, they confront you on it. Instead of admitting their wrongs and seek for quality advise on what should be done to salvage the situation because nobody has the monopoly of knowledge. It is high time for them to wake up from their slumber before it is too late and begin to look at issues critically and appreciate the fact that we are already at war,” Yerima said. This Is Very Embarrassing – Agoro Former presidential candidate of National Action Council (NAC), Dr. Olapade Agoro described the travel ban as very embarrassing and a “dirty slap” on the face of Nigerians and the government. Speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT in Osogbo on Saturday, Agoro explained that the ban is not only embarrassing to the country and leadership but to the entire African continent of which Nigeria is the largest economy. He maintained that the travel ban portends that Nigeria is an economic risky nation not fit to relate with, just as he pointed out that the action may scare away those nations and investors who might be interested in doing business with Nigeria. According to him, “The embarrassing situation no doubt to the government and citizens of Nigeria, will be found in U.S classing and castigating us as a careless and risky nation lacking basic of minimum security standards.” The Country Is Sick – Cleric In his reaction, Most Reverend Cyril Odutemu, Bishop of Ughelli Diocese and Arch Bishop-elect, Bendel Province, Anglican Communion, explained that the American government cannot make a pronouncement without due consideration of all the facts and issues at stake on the global scene. Odutemu explained that for the United States’ government to have extended the ban to Nigeria means that it has a genuine reason for its action. He said rather than condemn Trump for its decision, “we should ask questions to know why we are included. The U.S may not have banned all countries of the world. I will not support the ban but our leaders, particularly the Nigerian Ambassador to the U.S have a lot of explanations to make.” Buhari Sets Up Committee To Review Policy Meanwhile, the Presidency said it has constituted a special committee to review the U.S travel restrictions on the country. The committee, which will be headed by the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, will among other terms of reference, iron out ways not to strain Nigeria’s relationship with America. A statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, confirmed this development in Abuja on Saturday. Giving clarifications on the ban, Adesina explained that, “For Nigeria, the restriction is the suspension of the issuance of ‘immigrant visas’ to Nigerian passport holders only. This suspension shall come into effect on 21st February 2020. The suspension does not apply to other U.S visas such as those for official, business, tourism and student travel. “The DHS states the suspension of ‘immigrant visas’ became necessary following a review and update of the methodology (performance metrics) adopted by the U.S Government to assess compliance of certain security criteria by foreign governments. This resulted in certain enhancements on how information is shared between Nigeria and the U.S. “Nigeria remains committed to maintaining productive relations with the United States and its international allies especially on matters of global security. Accordingly, President Muhammadu Buhari has established a committee, to be chaired by the Hon. Minister of Interior, to study and address the updated U.S. requirements. The committee will work with the U.S Government, INTERPOL and other stakeholders to ensure all updates are properly implemented,” the statement added.