LAGOS – One of the leading unions in the Ni­gerian aviation in­dustry, Association of Nigeria Aviation Profes­sionals (ANAP), has asked the Federal Government to immediately terminate the existing build operate and transfer (BOT) agreement be­tween it and the management of Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos. The union complained to Senator Hadi Sirika and Capt. Rabiu
Yadudu, the Min­ister of Aviation and Manag­ing Director of FAAN, respec­tively,
that the agreement was skewed against the Nigerian people. The union, in a petition dated January 6 and 7 and addressed to
Yadudu and Sirika, declared that the BOT agreement paraded by BASL should
either be terminated or reviewed. The petition, which was signed
by Comrade Abdul­razaq Saidu, the General Secretary, ANAP, and copied to the
Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment; Managing
Director of the Nigerian Air­space Management Agency (NAMA); Director-General,
Nigerian Civil Aviation Au­thority (NCAA), and others, insisted that trade
unions were entitled to know about the initial BOT agreement, which was 12
years, but was “corruptly” skyrocketed to 36 years. The petition alleged that the 36 years agreement
being paraded by the management of BASL was never approved by the government
and won­dered where the company got the approval. The
petition challenged BASL to publish the approv­al for the 36 years agreement to
the public, noting that the intent of the private termi­nal operator was to
hijack government property and resources for its own benefit. “Any
agreement without outer clause is fraudulent and this is why the trade unions
needed to have a copy of Bi-Courtney MMA2 BOT agreement because their-so called
36 years duration was not duly approved by the Fed­eral Government,” the peti­tion
said. Saidu,
in an interview with our correspondent, con­firmed the petition, stressing that
soonest the unions would focus its attention on the activ­ities at the
terminal. He
explained that the ter­minal operator, since it com­menced operations in 2006,
was yet to remit any amount of money to FAAN as en­trenched in their
contractual agreement. He
mentioned fire service, security, and non-remittance of the statutory five
percent annual profit to FAAN as some of the areas in which the terminal
operator had failed since it commenced operations. He added: “Are they pay­ing for all those things? The answer is no. Any way, we are being told that Mr. Wale Baba­lakin, the chairman of BASL, has approached FAAN for the settlement of all debts so that he can continue to operate. “May be
somebody has hinted him that the unions have made up their minds to come very
hard more than the one we did in 2018. “During
that period, he knows how much money the company lost. We have told the minister
in a meeting that we will mobilise all FAAN staff to ground the terminal
because aircraft don’t just land on the runway and taxi to the terminal without
the involvement of some profes­sionals in the industry.” The crisis
between BASL and FAAN has been on for al­most a decade as both organ­isations
consistently accuse each other of violating the agreement reached before the
reconstruction of the burnt terminal in 2001. FAAN had
put the total debts of the terminal op­erator at N1,943,516,500 as at July 31,
2018. The sums were different from about N2 billion arising from the
non-payment of electricity, rent, conference, hotel, and 5 percent revenue
gener­ation, spanning the same period. FAAN had,
in a letter ad­dressed to the chief executive officer (CEO) of BASL in No­vember,
claimed that since the organisation commenced operations in 2007, it was yet to
remit any amount of mon­ey to its coffers as agreed in the contractual
agreement. But, in its
reaction, BASL declared that FAAN actually owed it over N132.5 billion as at
March 2009, which was two years after the commission­ing of the terminal. Statistically,
if the argu­ment of BASL was to be fol­lowed, FAAN owes the ter­minal operator
about N700 billion within the spate of 11 years. BASL also
boasted that the withdrawal of Aviation Security (AVSEC), Rescue and Fire
Fighting Services and Marshallers by FAAN would not in any way jeop­ardise
security and safety at the terminal, arguing that some of the agency’s person­nel
were not current. BASL posited
that it had ample safety and security measures in place to ensure the
withdrawal of FAAN per­sonnel would not in any way impede or disrupt smooth
flight operations and other business activities at the ter­minal. A statement
by Ayotunde Osowe, Corporate Commu­nications, BASL, said the credit arose
directly from the non-implementation of the concession agreement by the
appropriate authorities, including FAAN. The
terminal operator maintained that it had ad­equately trained Nigerian Civil
Aviation Authority (NCAA) certified personnel to man the various parts and all
sensitive points at the ter­minal, if FAAN carried out its threat. Osowe noted that courts had consistently
ordered that any liability BASL had to FAAN or any Federal Gov­ernment agency
should be de­ducted from the N132.5 billion it allegedly owes it.