ONITSHA –  Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme, Anambra State Chairman of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) has urged Nigerians to emulate the sacrificial and selfless life of Saint Valentine as they mark Valentine Day. The Saint Valentine’s Day comes up every February 14 and he said that it would help to actualise the Nigeria of our dreams, hopes and aspirations. According to him, “It is of prime importance to note that for us to make our good better and our better best, it calls for us to think and embrace common good and interest.” Ezekwueme made the remark in a public lecture  entitled, “Live For Humanity,” which he delivered to the Civil Society Organisations and Youths to commemorate the 2020 Feast of St Valentine held in Onitsha. “Love is that condition in which happiness of another person is essential to your own. It is of great relevance to note the wise and timeless assertion of John Holmes, there is no exercise for the heart than reaching down and lifting people up which only agape love can guarantee, pertinently of which St Valentine fought, lived and died for. Unfortunately it is an irony of history that some persons abuse and misconceived the feast. Significantly, it is a period to enjoin humanity to love and care for one another and humanity at large.” “However” for us to get  it right and best , it is ineluctable and inexorable to emulate and imbibe tenets, principles and lessons of St Valentine which symbolises love, charity, kindness, selflessness, compassion and empathy to humanity irrespective of tribes, religion, clans or political leanings,most importantly to obey the laws, ordinances and commands of God and not man.” “Worthy of note is, there is no blessings in getting, receiving andhaving but only in giving and sharing. The government’s, religious, Civil Society Organizations and traditional institutions and schools must inculcate and encourage moral rectitude, chastity, decorum,fear and love of God in our youths and nation. “The desiderata and panacea for sex for mark scandal, promiscuity, moral decadence, youths restiveness, idleness and unemployment are compulsory introduction of moral ethics, entrepreneurial education and skills in our schools and love of God and humanity”. “Further more the postulation of Albert Schweitzer, the purpose of life is  to serve and show love, compassion, passion, charity andempathy thereby putting smiles on their faces especially those who can never pay you back” “To drive home this inevitable lecture for our spirituality,  recommend Misconception Of Love and St Valentine Feast which proffers panacea to abuses of St Valentine Feast and immoralities” he concluded.