INNOCENT OWEH; ROLAND OGBONNAYA Governor Babagana Zulum of Bor­no State on Monday blamed the military for the Sunday night attack by Boko Haram that killed over 30 stranded travellers. The insurgents also ab­ducted
dozens of persons in the attack. “I am being pushed to the wall
to say the truth,” the gov­ernor said in anger. “Since my inauguration as the
governor of Borno State from May 29 to date, Auno town has been attacked for
about six times now. And the reason is that the military has withdrawn from
Auno town. “We have made repeated plea to
the military to re-es­tablish a base in Auno since it is one of the flashpoints
of the Boko Haram, but nothing has been done to that effect.” Governor Zulum said this while
visiting the scene where Boko Haram gunmen had at­tacked and massacred many
travellers that were stranded outside the military entrance city gate outside
Maiduguri, usually locked at 5p.m. According to the people of Auno
village, the victims of the attack arrived the mili­tary checkpoints leading
into Maiduguri after the 5pm clo­sure of the gate and they had no choice but to
sleep in Auno, the neighbouring village on the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway. While narrating their or­deal
in the hands of the ter­rorist group on Sunday night to Governor Zulum, the vil­lagers
said many others were abducted. They lamented that 18 ve­hicles comprising trailers, buses, and
cars were burnt by the insurgents who laid siege to their village about 9.50pm
on Sunday. The villagers, who were still in shock when the gover­nor paid a
condolence call on them on Monday morning, said women and children were loaded
into three buses and driven away. The villagers lamented that most of those that were attacked
were those that could not get into Maiduguri on Sunday as the gate to the town
was shut against them, after they failed to arrive before the 5p.m deadline. One of the villagers, who spoke anonymously to jour­nalists,
said: “It is sad as the Boko Haram seemed to have targeted the people, knowing
that many would have to sleep in Auno as the gate to Maidu­guri would have been
shut against them by 5p.m.” He further lamented that when the gate mounted by the military
was closed and all ve­hicular movements officially ceased, the insurgents came
at night and slaughtered ev­eryone in sight. The governor, who was vis­ibly shaken when he saw the charred
bodies of the victims of the attack who were roast­ed by the fire resulting
from the burnt vehicles, requested the military authorities to dis­mantle the
Auno gate from its present position and move it further away from the village
so that it will be more difficult for insurgents to gain access into the
village. He said the Borno State government would assist those whose
vehicles were de­stroyed in the attack as well as those whose goods were burnt
alongside the vehicles trans­porting foodstuff and other wares into Maiduguri. He, however, called on the people to remain calm and be
law-abiding in the face of the challenges, promising that government would look
for a way to solve the situation. Appalled by the heinous act, the head of the military counter-insurgency operation in the North-East, Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj. Gen. Oluse­gun Adeniyi, said the Maidu­ guri/Damaturu road would now be closed by 4p.m in order to protect lives and property. Adeniyi
directed the clo­sure to be moved forward to 4p.m as the major entrance into
Maiduguri from other parts of the country used to be closed to traffic by 5p.m. Although
residents of Auno had told the governor that 30 corpses were count­ed at the
scene of the attack, Adeniyi told journalists at a press briefing that ten per­sons
were killed. The Army
General said it had become dangerous to ‘ply and park vehicles’ along
Maiduguri/Damaturu road between 4pm and night. He said:
“We don’t want to see vehicles on this road between evening and night hours.” He
wondered why motor­ists and truck drivers had to park over 200 vehicles at
Auno. He noted
that the closure of the road was also to pre­vent Boko Haram insurgents from
attacking commuters and communities along the 132-kilometre highway. He
blamed Auno’s attack on the excesses of drivers and transporters. Army Rescues Three Abducted
Students In Borno In
another development, the Nigerian army on Monday said it has handed over three students
of Federal Govern­ment Girls College, Maidugu­ri, rescued from the insurgents
in Borno. Maj.-Gen.
Olusegun Adeni­yi, the Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD),
announced this while present­ing the rescued victims to their families in Maiduguri. Adeniyi
disclosed that the students, including two fe­males, were abducted along­side
one male student on Maiduguri-Gubio Road on Sunday. He
identified the rescued students as Wommi Laja, Ammo Laja and Kingi Laja, adding
that they were rescued from the insurgents’ den after a gun duel between the
insur­gents and Lt. Col. Idris Yusuf, Commander of the 158 Battal­ion Gubio. Adeniyi
said that the sol­dier pursued the insurgents and rescued the students un­hurt. “On Feb.
9, Boko Haram insurgents came with 15 gun trucks between Magumeri and Gubio.
They did a snap operation in less than two minutes and kidnapped three
students. “The
students were wear­ing school uniforms which made it easy for them to be
identified. The insurgents are against western education and they abducted
them. “The
commanding officer mobilised the troops and went on hot pursuit of the insur­gents’
with the help of the lo­cals who provided intelligence. “We are
happy the students are here with us safe and sound,” he said. Adeniyi
called on parents to monitor their wards and en­courage them against wearing
school uniform while travel­ling. Responding
on behalf of the parents of the students, Mrs. Aisha Laja, commended the
efforts of the military and local vigilantes for rescuing their children. She
urged residents to sup­port security operations by giving intelligent
information that could prevent or curb the activities of insurgents. Police Rescue Four Kidnapped
Victims In Abuja Similarly, the Police Com­mand
in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), on Monday rescued four kidnapped vic­tims
from a notorious kidnap­pers’ den located at Sauni Hills, Lambata, along the
boundary between FCT and Niger State. The command’s Police Pub­lic
Relations Officer, DSP An­juguri Manzah, in a statement said the victims were
rescued following a special operation launched by the command. He said the victims were
rescued after police operatives had dislodged the criminals from their hideout
located in a remote mountainous area. Manzah said the operation was
sequel to a distress call re­ceived at Gwagwalada Police Division that two
persons, a male and a female were kid­napped from their home by some heavily
armed persons on Feb. 8. “Following the distress call,
police operatives from Gwagwalada Division launched a major onslaught. “The operation forced the
heavily armed kidnappers, who engaged the police res­cue team in fierce
exchange of gunfire, to abandon their victims at the mountainous terrain used
as their hideout before escaping,” he said. He said two of the rescued
victims, Alhaji Umaru Salihu and Mariam Umaru were kid­napped from their home
in Pa­gada village on Feb. 8. Manzah said the two other
victims Zilkifilu Usman and Usman Shuaibu told the police that they were
kidnapped from Niger State on Feb. 2 while on transit. He commended the vigilan­tes
operating along the axis, who in the spirit of commu­nity policing, supported
the police during the operation. We’ll Liberate All Abducted
Persons, Buhari Assures Meanwhile, President Mu­hammadu
Buhari on Monday, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, re­assured Nigerians and the in­ternational
community of the commitment of his govern­ment to secure the freedom of all
children and other victims of abduction by terrorists in the country. According to a statement by the
President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Pub­licity, Malam Garba
Shehu, President Buhari renewed his pledge at a High Level Breakfast Dialogue
on ‘Stop the War on Children Affected by Armed Conflicts, Dividend of Silencing
the Guns’, a side event during the 33rd AU Sum­mit. The programme was co-sponsored
by the govern­ments of Nigeria, Uganda, and Norway, the AU Commission and Save
the Children. Speaking on the occasion,
President Buhari said: “A number of schoolgirls from Chibok and Dapchi earlier
abducted by Boko Haram have regained their freedom. “We commend the gallant efforts
of the Multinational Joint Task Force and the part­ners in supporting the
reinte­gration of the girls. “Let me categorically reas­sure
you of the steadfast com­mitment of the government of Nigeria to ensure the
freedom of all kidnapped children from the shackles of Boko Haram. “We will not relent until every
child, boy, or girl, every Nigerian adult in custody of Boko Haram, is freed.” He urged African countries and
stakeholders on the conti­nent to work fervently towards strengthening the
protection of children from the six grave violations during armed con­flict. The six grave violations are
killing and maiming of children, recruitment or use of children as soldiers,
sexual violence against children, ab­duction of children, attacks against
schools or hospitals, and denial of humanitarian access for children. President Buhari expressed
concern that these grave vio­lations against children had continued unabated. ‘’It is for this reason that
the Nigerian government has sev­erally condemned, and is com­bating frontally
the dreadful activities of terrorist groups like Boko Haram and the so-called
Islamic State. ‘’Of course, the severity of
these grave violations varies from country to country. ‘’The incidence of a single
violation of children’s rights in any country is an indelible dent on the
African conscious­ness and is to be deplored and condemned,’’ he said. Reminding AU member states of
their commitments to protecting children affected by armed conflicts in Africa,
President Buhari reaffirmed Nigeria’s commitment to the protection of children
in armed conflict zones. He also used the occasion to
outline some concrete measures taken by Nigeria to­wards tackling the root caus­es
of child soldiers and the misfortune of out-of-school children. ‘’To stem the tide of
out-of-school children, Nigeria embarked on an all-inclusive reconstruction of
schools van­dalised by the ravaging terror­ist activities of Boko Haram, while
returning children are rehabilitated and reintegrated into society. ‘’Our Nomadic Education policy
is also being imple­mented to reduce the number of out-of-school children. We
have also prioritized de-radi­calisation and demobilisation of ex-combatant
children of Boko Haram insurgents,” President Buhari said. The Nigerian leader also called
on the AU Peace and Se­curity Council to energetically champion the strategy to
stop the war on children and adopt the Child Protection Architec­ture within
the African Peace and Security Architecture and the Roadmap on Silencing the
Guns. ‘’The call to action is now for
accountability by all Afri­can states to the rights of the children caught up
in wars. ‘’Let us stop the war on chil­dren.
This is a wake-up call for us all to create the enabling environment for
rooting out the impact of armed conflicts against our children across the
continent,’’ he said. Buhari Condemns Killing Of 30
Persons Again, President Buhari has commiserated
with fam­ily of victims of attacks at Auno village, along Damatu­ru-Maiduguri
Road, assuring them that his administration will continually frustrate the
devilish operations of Boko Haram, and bring it to an end. In a statement by his Se­nior
Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on
Monday, President Buhari condemned “murderous and cowardly” attack on inno­cent
passengers by the Boko Haram terrorists near Maidu­guri. According to him, his ad­ministration
is ever deter­mined to frustrate their goal to hold Nigeria to ransom. He said: “The commitment of this administration to
pro­tect the lives of Nigerians will not be derailed by the coward­ly and
indiscriminate vio­lence against innocent people by Boko Haram terrorists.”