Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie The last time we visited one of the Nigerian Prison was a remarkable and terrible experience. Some of the women who were with us were shading tears because of the horrible state of the cells. More than forty inmates were in a cell and most of them were on Awaiting Trials. Some of them have spent more than six years on Awaiting Trials. As we were coming out of the prison yard, I heard one of our members saying, “I pray that none of my family member end up in jail.” People don’t know the importance of freedom until they lose it. If you don’t want to end up in jail then stay away from any occasion that will lead to trouble. Since my last prison visitation I have come to realize the importance of the Law and human freedom. The Psalmist declares, “Blessed are those who walk in the law of the Lord (Psalm 119:1). The blessed ones are those who enjoy freedom of movement, freedom of speech and freedom of association. They are those who enjoy inner peace with God and with their fellow human beings. They live a free and faultless life. One cannot enjoy these freedom without the law. The law is the channel of freedom. It is the essence of human freedom. If you want to enjoy inner peace and absolute freedom, then you must obey the law, especially God’s law. God’s law sets us free. It is the best guiding principles and indeed the standard of our lives. The book of Sirach 15:15-20 acknowledges the human right to choose between good and evil. Whatever choice one makes there is always a consequence.  The passage declares, “If you want to, you can keep the Lord’s commands. You can decide whether you will be loyal to him or not. 16 He has placed fire and water before you; reach out and take whichever you want. 17 You have a choice between life and death; you will get whichever you choose. 18 The Lord’s wisdom and power are great and he sees everything. 19 He is aware of everything a person does, and he takes care of those who fear him. 20 He has never commanded anyone to be wicked or given anyone permission to sin.” God’s commands is clear and good. It does not permit anyone to do evil. In the gospel of Matthew 5:17-20 our Lord Jesus Christ highlights the importance of the law. He told his followers “Do not think that I have come to do away with the Law of Moses and the teachings of the prophets. I have not come to do away with them, but to make their teachings come true. 18 Remember that as long as heaven and earth last, not the least point or the smallest detail of the Law will be done away with—not until the end of all things. 19 So then, whoever disobeys even the least important of the commandments and teaches others to do the same, will be least in the Kingdom of heaven. On the other hand, whoever obeys the Law and teaches others to do the same, will be great in the Kingdom of heaven. 20 I tell you, then, that you will be able to enter the Kingdom of heaven only if you are more faithful than the teachers of the Law and the Pharisees in doing what God requires.” For our Lord Jesus Christ, we cannot do without the law. The law will not only protect us here on earth, it will also guide us on our way to heaven. Indeed, there is no short cut. We cannot do without the law. In the book of Leviticus 22:31  the Lord God declares, “So you shall keep My commandments, and do them; I am the LORD.” Also in the book of Deuteronomy 8:1  the Lord declares, “All the commandments that I am commanding you today you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the LORD swore to give to your forefathers.” As you keep the Lord’s commandment you shall possess your possession. Keeping God’s commandment is for our own good. By keeping the law or the commandment we are not doing God any favour, we are rather doing favour to ourselves. The book of  Deuteronomy 10:13 declares, “To keep the LORD’S commandments and His statutes which I am commanding you today for your good?” Indeed, obedience to the law is for your good and not for anyone’s good. There are so many other benefits we can get through God’s commandments. For instance, in the gospel of John 15:10-14  our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. “This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.” Obedience to God’s commandment leads to fullness of joy. If you really wants to be happy then obey God’s commandment! In his first letter St. John 5:3 declares, “For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.” This is exactly want our Lord Jesus Christ meant when he declares, “Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.”  Also in John 14:15-16  He declares, “If you love me, you will obey my commandments. 16 I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, who will stay with you forever.” Love is the only thing that can help us to obey God’s commandment. If for no other reason why you must obey God’s commandment at least because of the love one has for God. This is the best reason why we must obey God’s commandment. Moreover, obedience to God’s commandment is the highest expression of love. For St. Paul, there is only one thing that matters and that is the keeping of God’s In his first letter to the Corinthians 7:19 St. Paul declares,  “For neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God.” It doesn’t matter whether you are a born again Christian of not; whether you are a baptized communicant  or not, what matter is your ability and willingness to keep God’s commandment. The book of Deuteronomy 28:1-8 presents litanies of blessings that awaits those who keep the law or God’s commandment:  “If you obey the LORD your God and faithfully keep all his commands that I am giving you today, he will make you greater than any other nation on earth. 2 Obey the LORD your God and all these blessings will be yours: 3 “The LORD will bless your towns and your fields. 4 “The LORD will bless you with many children, with abundant crops, and with many cattle and sheep. 5 “The LORD will bless your grain crops and the food you prepare from them. 6 “The LORD will bless everything you do. 7 “The LORD will defeat your enemies when they attack you. They will attack from one direction, but they will run from you in all directions. 8 “The LORD your God will bless your work and fill your barns with grain. He will bless you in the land that he is giving you.” Child of God, these and many other blessings will be yours if you keep God’s commandment. As you do so God will richly bless you and it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!