One fellow who has weathered all storms to remain afloat in a competitive business of fashion industry is Ebewele Brown Oserhiemen, CEO of Ebewele Brown Fashions. This soft dude comes to mind in such a powerful story which in itself inspires and push people to believe in themselves. Surely there’ll be time where giving up seems like the right route to take, but we must take seriously his story. He has encountered challenges in virtually all aspects of his life. The Edo born fashion designer who has become a catalyst in the Nigerian fashion industry was not who he’s now some decades ago. He was supposedly an undergraduate of Computer Information Systems in Babcock University, Ogun State; Nigeria. He was kicked out of school. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As a result distanced himself from his family, rolled his sleeves to work on a dream that’s always piqued him. He worked at a time, in Integrated Data Service Limited, an oil servicing firm, as a ‘Radio Fielder’. “I worked there for a little while just to raise some money for an computer ipad. I was convinced that once I get an ipad I’m practically a fashion designer.” This motive to get an gadget was driven by the desire to learn and grow in a fast pacing fashion world. As he continued his quest for the good life in the hustle and bustle streets of Benin City, he met one of his friend Charles, who was the CEO of Tony Crims, a fashion home that was into fanciful easy to wear clothing. Ebewele who ran Africana Kulture at that time, went into partnership with Charles. “I told Charles that the market for his clothing was not in Benin.”Life in Lagos was not what they expected. It’s not an easy feat for them. The duo practically gave out every kobo as it comes in order to pay for bills of which the hotel bills took the lion share as they had to squat in a room. Fears of failure, doubts and uncertainty beclouded his mind. The constant hardship gave him something to think about. But Ebewele was not ready to bow down and give up. What many would term, ‘a lucky break’ came in 2012 where himself and Charles had to make a trip to Abuja. This singular move changed his life forever. This was his promise land. “Ever since 2012 to 2017 I never went back to Benin City.” This city has been good to him as he owns many businesses to his name. His works are magical and has endeared him to many Abuja influential bigwigs.Ebewele, a fashion designer, entrepreneur and thinker has used his trade to impact his trading neighbourhood. Within his base of operation, he is a known name with a sister brand he co-owned, Dery & Brown. A venture he started with his friend. Currently, he has became a rave and sought after by lover of quality designs.